---
reference_id: PMID:37541087
title: "HMG-CoA reductase degrader, SR-12813, counteracts statin-induced upregulation of HMG-CoA reductase and augments the anticancer effect of atorvastatin."
authors:
- Zhou Y
- Tashiro J
- Kamatani S
- Irie N
- Suzuki A
- Ishikawa T
- Warita K
- Oltvai ZN
- Warita T
journal: Biochemical and biophysical research communications
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2023.07.056
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:03:02+00:00'
---

# HMG-CoA reductase degrader, SR-12813, counteracts statin-induced upregulation of HMG-CoA reductase and augments the anticancer effect of atorvastatin.
**Authors:** Zhou Y, Tashiro J, Kamatani S, Irie N, Suzuki A, Ishikawa T, Warita K, Oltvai ZN, Warita T
**Journal:** Biochemical and biophysical research communications (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.bbrc.2023.07.056](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2023.07.056)

## Content

Statins are cholesterol-lowering drugs that have exhibited potential as cancer therapeutic agents. However, as some cancer cells are resistant to statins, broadening an anticancer spectrum of statins is desirable. The upregulated expression of the statin target enzyme, 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase (HMGCR), in statin-treated cancer cells is a well-known mechanism of statin resistance, which can be counteracted by the downregulation of HMGCR gene expression, or degradation of the HMGCR protein. However, the mechanism by which HMGCR degradation influences the anticancer effects of statins remain unreported. We tested the effect of the HMGCR degrader compound SR-12813 at a concentration that did not affect the growth of eight diverse tumor cell lines. Combined treatment with atorvastatin and a low concentration of SR-12813 led to lowering of increased HMGCR expression, and augmented the cytostatic effect of atorvastatin in both statin-resistant and -sensitive cancer cells compared with that of atorvastatin treatment alone. Dual-targeting of HMGCR using statins and SR-12813 (or similar compounds) could provide an improved anticancer therapeutic approach.