---
reference_id: PMID:29962245
title: "Comparative functional and pharmacological characterization of Sandoz proposed biosimilar adalimumab (GP2017): rationale for extrapolation across indications."
authors:
- Kronthaler U
- Fritsch C
- Hainzl O
- Seidl A
- da Silva A
journal: Expert opinion on biological therapy
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1080/14712598.2018.1495193
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:00:31+00:00'
---

# Comparative functional and pharmacological characterization of Sandoz proposed biosimilar adalimumab (GP2017): rationale for extrapolation across indications.
**Authors:** Kronthaler U, Fritsch C, Hainzl O, Seidl A, da Silva A
**Journal:** Expert opinion on biological therapy (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1080/14712598.2018.1495193](https://doi.org/10.1080/14712598.2018.1495193)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Biosimilars are approved biologics that match reference medicine in quality, safety, and efficacy. The development of Sandoz proposed biosimilar adalimumab (SPBA; GP2017) involved a target-directed, iterative state-of-the-art quality-by-design development program. Here, we describe the functional and pharmacological characterization of SPBA and its proposed mechanism of action in immune-mediated inflammatory diseases.

**METHODS:** Sensitive in vitro binding and functional characterization studies, and nonclinical evaluations (pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and safety/toxicology) were performed as part of a stepwise approach to confirm the biosimilarity of SPBA with reference adalimumab.

**RESULTS:** Matching values were reported for SPBA and reference adalimumab in binding assays involving tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, complement 1q and human immune effector cell Fcγ receptor subtypes in cell-based bioassays for Fc receptor function (complement- and antibody-dependent cytotoxicity), and in apoptosis inhibition. Furthermore, SPBA and reference adalimumab were equivalent in terms of membrane TNF binding and induction of reverse signaling. Pharmacokinetics of SPBA and reference adalimumab were comparable in rabbits, and the two biologics were equally effective in a human TNF transgenic mouse model of polyarthritis.

**CONCLUSION:** SPBA matches reference adalimumab with regards to target binding, functional, pharmacokinetic, and pharmacodynamic properties at the nonclinical level supporting its approval in all indications of the reference adalimumab.