---
reference_id: PMID:36572148
title: Rifampicin exerts anti-mucoviscous activity against hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae via binding to the RNA polymerase β subunit.
authors:
- Tohda M
- Oinuma KI
- Sakiyama A
- Tsubouchi T
- Niki M
- Namikawa H
- Yamane K
- Yamada K
- Watanabe T
- Asai K
- Kakeya H
- Kaneko Y
- Kawaguchi T
journal: Journal of global antimicrobial resistance
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1016/j.jgar.2022.11.018
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T18:57:56+00:00'
---

# Rifampicin exerts anti-mucoviscous activity against hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae via binding to the RNA polymerase β subunit.
**Authors:** Tohda M, Oinuma KI, Sakiyama A, Tsubouchi T, Niki M, Namikawa H, Yamane K, Yamada K, Watanabe T, Asai K, Kakeya H, Kaneko Y, Kawaguchi T
**Journal:** Journal of global antimicrobial resistance (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jgar.2022.11.018](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jgar.2022.11.018)

## Content

**OBJECTIVES:** In hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae (hvKP), the hypermucoviscous capsule is known to be a major virulence determinant. We previously discovered that rifampicin (RFP), a bactericidal drug that binds to and inhibits the β subunit of RNA polymerase (RpoB), elicits anti-mucoviscous activity against hvKP by suppressing rmpA, a regulator of capsule production. Here, we aimed to determine whether RFP exerts this effect at sub-growth-inhibitory concentrations via its binding to RpoB.

**METHODS:** Five spontaneous RFP-resistant mutants (R1-R5) were prepared from an hvKP clinical isolate and subjected to whole genome sequencing and mucoviscosity analyses. Subsequently, a two-step allelic exchange procedure was used to create a rpoB mutant R6 and revertants with wild-type rpoB from R1-R5 (named R1'-R5'). Transcription levels of rmpA and the capsular polysaccharide polymerase gene magA and capsule thickness of R1-R5 and R1'-R5' grown without or with RFP were evaluated by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and microscopic observation using India ink staining.

**RESULTS:** R1-R5 all had non-synonymous point mutations in rpoB and were highly resistant to the bactericidal effects and anti-mucoviscous activity of RFP. While the properties of R6 were similar to those of R1-R5, the responses of R1'-R5' to RFP were identical to those of the wild type. rmpA and magA transcription levels and capsule thickness correlated well with the mucoviscosity levels.

**CONCLUSIONS:** RFP exerts anti-mucoviscous activity by binding to RpoB. The mechanism of how this causes rmpA suppression remains to be explored.