---
reference_id: PMID:33655282
title: Targeting the Coronavirus Nucleocapsid Protein through GSK-3 Inhibition.
authors:
- Liu X
- Verma A
- Garcia G
- Ramage H
- Myers RL
- Lucas A
- Michaelson JJ
- Coryell W
- Kumar A
- Charney AW
- Kazanietz MG
- Rader DJ
- Ritchie MD
- Berrettini WH
- Schultz DC
- Cherry S
- Damoiseaux R
- Arumugaswami V
- Klein PS
journal: "medRxiv : the preprint server for health sciences"
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1101/2021.02.17.21251933
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:48:27+00:00'
---

# Targeting the Coronavirus Nucleocapsid Protein through GSK-3 Inhibition.
**Authors:** Liu X, Verma A, Garcia G, Ramage H, Myers RL, Lucas A, Michaelson JJ, Coryell W, Kumar A, Charney AW, Kazanietz MG, Rader DJ, Ritchie MD, Berrettini WH, Schultz DC, Cherry S, Damoiseaux R, Arumugaswami V, Klein PS
**Journal:** medRxiv : the preprint server for health sciences (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1101/2021.02.17.21251933](https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.02.17.21251933)

## Content

**UNLABELLED:** The coronaviruses responsible for severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS-CoV), COVID-19 (SARS-CoV-2), Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS-CoV), and other coronavirus infections express a nucleocapsid protein (N) that is essential for viral replication, transcription, and virion assembly. Phosphorylation of N from SARS-CoV by glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) is required for its function and inhibition of GSK-3 with lithium impairs N phosphorylation, viral transcription, and replication. Here we report that the SARS-CoV-2 N protein contains GSK-3 consensus sequences and that this motif is conserved in diverse coronaviruses, raising the possibility that SARS-CoV-2 may be sensitive to GSK-3 inhibitors including lithium. We conducted a retrospective analysis of lithium use in patients from three major health systems who were PCR tested for SARS-CoV-2. We found that patients taking lithium have a significantly reduced risk of COVID-19 (odds ratio = 0.51 [0.35 - 0.74], p = 0.005). We also show that the SARS-CoV-2 N protein is phosphorylated by GSK-3. Knockout of GSK3A and GSK3B demonstrates that GSK-3 is essential for N phosphorylation. Alternative GSK-3 inhibitors block N phosphorylation and impair replication in SARS-CoV-2 infected lung epithelial cells in a cell-type dependent manner. Targeting GSK-3 may therefore provide a new approach to treat COVID-19 and future coronavirus outbreaks.

**SIGNIFICANCE:** COVID-19 is taking a major toll on personal health, healthcare systems, and the global economy. With three betacoronavirus epidemics in less than 20 years, there is an urgent need for therapies to combat new and existing coronavirus outbreaks. Our analysis of clinical data from over 300,000 patients in three major health systems demonstrates a 50% reduced risk of COVID-19 in patients taking lithium, a direct inhibitor of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3). We further show that GSK-3 is essential for phosphorylation of the SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid protein and that GSK-3 inhibition blocks SARS-CoV-2 infection in human lung epithelial cells. These findings suggest an antiviral strategy for COVID-19 and new coronaviruses that may arise in the future.