---
reference_id: PMID:29574792
title: Reduced Variability to Aspirin Antiplatelet Effect by the Coadministration of Statins in High-Risk Patients for Cardiovascular Disease.
authors:
- Tacconelli S
- Dovizio M
- Di Francesco L
- Meneguzzi A
- "D'Agostino I"
- Evangelista V
- Manarini S
- Capone ML
- Grossi L
- Porreca E
- Di Febbo C
- Bruno A
- Ballerini P
- Levantesi G
- Fava C
- Minuz P
- Patrignani P
journal: Clinical pharmacology and therapeutics
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1002/cpt.1075
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:00:41+00:00'
---

# Reduced Variability to Aspirin Antiplatelet Effect by the Coadministration of Statins in High-Risk Patients for Cardiovascular Disease.
**Authors:** Tacconelli S, Dovizio M, Di Francesco L, Meneguzzi A, D'Agostino I, Evangelista V, Manarini S, Capone ML, Grossi L, Porreca E, Di Febbo C, Bruno A, Ballerini P, Levantesi G, Fava C, Minuz P, Patrignani P
**Journal:** Clinical pharmacology and therapeutics (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1002/cpt.1075](https://doi.org/10.1002/cpt.1075)

## Content

We studied the influence of cardiovascular (CV) risk factors, previous CV events, and cotreatments with preventive medicines, on residual platelet thromboxane (TX)B2 production in 182 patients chronically treated with enteric coated (EC)-aspirin (100 mg/day). The response to aspirin was also verified by assessing arachidonic acid-induced platelet aggregation and urinary 11-dehydro-TXB2 levels. Residual serum TXB2 levels exceeded the upper limit value for an adequate aspirin response in 14% of individuals. This phenomenon was detected at 12 hours after dosing with aspirin. The coadministration of statins (mostly atorvastatin) was an independent predictor of residual serum TXB2 levels, and the percentage of patients with enhanced values was significantly lower in statin users vs. nonusers. We provide evidence in vitro that atorvastatin reduced residual TXB2 generation by increasing the extent of acetylation of platelet COX-1 by aspirin. In conclusion, the coadministration of statins may counter the mechanisms associated with reduced bioavailability of aspirin detected in some individuals with CV disease.