---
reference_id: PMID:32241871
title: Preclinical Activity of HER2-Selective Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor Tucatinib as a Single Agent or in Combination with Trastuzumab or Docetaxel in Solid Tumor Models.
authors:
- Kulukian A
- Lee P
- Taylor J
- Rosler R
- de Vries P
- Watson D
- Forero-Torres A
- Peterson S
journal: Molecular cancer therapeutics
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-19-0873
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:20:50+00:00'
---

# Preclinical Activity of HER2-Selective Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor Tucatinib as a Single Agent or in Combination with Trastuzumab or Docetaxel in Solid Tumor Models.
**Authors:** Kulukian A, Lee P, Taylor J, Rosler R, de Vries P, Watson D, Forero-Torres A, Peterson S
**Journal:** Molecular cancer therapeutics (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-19-0873](https://doi.org/10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-19-0873)

## Content

HER2 is a transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptor that mediates cell growth, differentiation, and survival. HER2 is overexpressed in approximately 20% of breast cancers and in subsets of gastric, colorectal, and esophageal cancers. Both antibody and small-molecule drugs that target HER2 and block its tyrosine kinase activity are effective in treating HER2-driven cancers. In this article, we describe the preclinical properties of tucatinib, an orally available, reversible HER2-targeted small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor. In both biochemical and cell signaling experiments, tucatinib inhibits HER2 kinase activity with single-digit nanomolar potency and provides exceptional selectivity for HER2 compared with the related receptor tyrosine kinase EGFR, with a >1,000-fold enhancement in potency for HER2 in cell signaling assays. Tucatinib potently inhibits signal transduction downstream of HER2 and HER3 through the MAPK and PI3K/AKT pathways and is selectively cytotoxic in HER2-amplified breast cancer cell lines in vitro. In vivo, tucatinib is active in multiple HER2+ tumor models as a single agent and shows enhanced antitumor activity in combination with trastuzumab or docetaxel, resulting in improved rates of partial and complete tumor regression. These preclinical data, taken together with the phase-I tucatinib clinical trial results demonstrating preliminary safety and activity, establish the unique pharmacologic properties of tucatinib and underscore the rationale for investigating its utility in HER2+ cancers. GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT: http://mct.aacrjournals.org/content/molcanther/19/4/976/F1.large.jpg.