---
reference_id: PMID:28604806
title: Prostaglandin E2 inhibits Tr1 cell differentiation through suppression of c-Maf.
authors:
- Hooper KM
- Kong W
- Ganea D
journal: PloS one
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0179184
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:43:35+00:00'
---

# Prostaglandin E2 inhibits Tr1 cell differentiation through suppression of c-Maf.
**Authors:** Hooper KM, Kong W, Ganea D
**Journal:** PloS one (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1371/journal.pone.0179184](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0179184)

## Content

Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), a major lipid mediator abundant at inflammatory sites, acts as a proinflammatory agent in models of inflammatory/autoimmune diseases by promoting CD4 Th1/Th17 differentiation. Regulatory T cells, including the IL-10 producing Tr1 cells counterbalance the proinflammatory activity of effector Th1/Th17 cells. Tr1 cell differentiation and function are induced by IL-27, and depend primarily on sustained expression of c-Maf in addition to AhR and Blimp-1. In agreement with the in vivo proinflammatory role of PGE2, here we report for the first time that PGE2 inhibits IL-27-induced differentiation and IL-10 production of murine CD4+CD49b+LAG-3+Foxp3- Tr1 cells. The inhibitory effect of PGE2 was mediated through EP4 receptors and induction of cAMP, leading to a significant reduction in c-Maf expression. Although PGE2 reduced IL-21 production in differentiating Tr1 cells, its inhibitory effect on Tr1 differentiation and c-Maf expression also occurred independent of IL-21 signaling. PGE2 did not affect STAT1/3 activation, AhR expression and only marginally reduced Egr-2/Blimp-1 expression. The effect of PGE2 on CD4+CD49b+LAG-3+ Tr1 differentiation was not associated with either induction of Foxp3 or IL-17 production, suggesting a lack of transdifferentiation into Foxp3+ Treg or effector Th17 cells. We recently reported that PGE2 inhibits the expression and production of IL-27 from activated conventional dendritic cells (cDC) in vivo and in vitro. The present study indicates that PGE2 also reduces murine Tr1 differentiation and function directly by acting on IL-27-differentiating Tr1 cells. Together, the ability of PGE2 to inhibit IL-27 production by cDC, and the direct inhibitory effect on Tr1 differentiation mediated through reduction in c-Maf expression, represent a new mechanistic perspective for the proinflammatory activity of PGE2.