---
reference_id: PMID:6270357
title: Thymidine kinase not required for antiviral activity of acyclovir against mouse cytomegalovirus.
authors:
- Burns WH
- Wingard JR
- Bender WJ
- Saral R
journal: Journal of virology
year: '1981'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:30:52+00:00'
---

# Thymidine kinase not required for antiviral activity of acyclovir against mouse cytomegalovirus.
**Authors:** Burns WH, Wingard JR, Bender WJ, Saral R
**Journal:** Journal of virology (1981)

## Content

Previous studies of herpesvirus infections have indicated that a virus-specified thymidine kinase is required for the initial phosphorylation of acyclovir [acycloguanosine or 9-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl)guanine] in the formation of acycloguanosine triphosphate. The latter compound accumulates in infected cells and competitively inhibits the viral DNA polymerase. We found that mouse cytomegalovirus, which does not express a thymidine kinase, was sensitive to the antiviral effects of acyclovir at a 50% inhibitory dose of approximately 0.23 microM. Acyclovir was equally effective against mouse cytomegalovirus in normal 3T3 cells and in 3T3 cells deficient in cellular thymidine kinase. Furthermore, the activity of acyclovir could not be reversed by excess thymidine, which easily reversed the antiviral activity of acyclovir against herpes simplex virus. Using a high-pressure liquid chromatography technique that easily detected acycloguanosine triphosphate in cells infected with herpes simplex virus, we could not detect acycloguanosine triphosphate in mouse cytomegalovirus-infected cells. These experiments demonstrated that the activity of acyclovir against mouse cytomegalovirus is not dependent on a thymidine phosphorylation pathway. Additional experiments are underway to determine whether acycloguanosine triphosphate is produced by another pathway in concentrations sufficient to inhibit mouse cytomegalovirus DNA polymerase.