---
reference_id: PMID:37789237
title: Antiplatelet Treatment Patterns and Outcomes for Secondary Stroke Prevention in the United Kingdom.
authors:
- Liu X
- Jiang J
- Li D
- Horrow J
- Tamada H
- Kahl A
- Hariharan V
- Avinav A
- Li X
journal: Cardiology and therapy
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1007/s40119-023-00332-7
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:09:37+00:00'
---

# Antiplatelet Treatment Patterns and Outcomes for Secondary Stroke Prevention in the United Kingdom.
**Authors:** Liu X, Jiang J, Li D, Horrow J, Tamada H, Kahl A, Hariharan V, Avinav A, Li X
**Journal:** Cardiology and therapy (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s40119-023-00332-7](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40119-023-00332-7)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** Stroke is a leading cause of death and disability worldwide. Antiplatelet therapies are recommended to reduce the risk of recurrent stroke in patients with ischemic stroke/transient ischemic attack (IS/TIA). This study evaluated outpatient antiplatelet treatment patterns and outcomes for secondary stroke prevention (SSP) among UK adults without atrial fibrillation who were hospitalized for IS/TIA.

**METHODS:** This retrospective observational study utilized data from the UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink linked with Hospital Episode Statistics data (01/01/2011-30/06/2019). Treatment patterns included type and duration of treatments. Treatment outcomes included IS, myocardial infarction, major bleeding, and cardiovascular-related and all-cause mortality. Descriptive statistics were reported.

**RESULTS:** Of 9270 patients, 13.9% (1292) might not receive antithrombotic therapy within 90 days of hospital discharge. Of 7978 patients who received antiplatelet therapies, most used clopidogrel (74.8%) or aspirin (16.7%) single antiplatelet therapy and clopidogrel + aspirin dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT, 5.9%). At 1-year post-hospitalization, 36.9, 43.3, and 35.1% of those receiving these treatments discontinued them, respectively, and of the patients initiating DAPT, 62.3% switched to single antiplatelet therapy. At 1-year post-discharge, the incidence rate (per 100 person-years) of IS, myocardial infarction, major bleeding, cardiovascular-related mortality, and all-cause mortality among the treated were 6.5, 0.7, 4.1, 5.0, and 7.3, respectively, and among the untreated were 14.9, 0.7, 8.6, 28.1, and 39.8, respectively.

**CONCLUSIONS:** In the United Kingdom, 13.9% of patients hospitalized for stroke might not have any antiplatelet treatment to prevent secondary stroke; among the treated, clopidogrel, aspirin, and DAPT were commonly used. These study findings suggest that improved anti-thrombotic therapies for long-term SSP treatment are needed, which may lead to higher treatment and persistence rates and, therefore, improved outcomes in this population.