---
reference_id: PMID:30747396
title: Activation of T Lymphocytes as a Novel Mechanism in Beta1-Adrenergic Receptor Autoantibody-Induced Cardiac Remodeling.
authors:
- Du Y
- Li X
- Yu H
- Yan L
- Lau WB
- Zhang S
- Qin Y
- Wang W
- Ma X
- Liu H
- Fu M
journal: Cardiovascular drugs and therapy
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1007/s10557-019-06856-2
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:08:00+00:00'
---

# Activation of T Lymphocytes as a Novel Mechanism in Beta1-Adrenergic Receptor Autoantibody-Induced Cardiac Remodeling.
**Authors:** Du Y, Li X, Yu H, Yan L, Lau WB, Zhang S, Qin Y, Wang W, Ma X, Liu H, Fu M
**Journal:** Cardiovascular drugs and therapy (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s10557-019-06856-2](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10557-019-06856-2)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Numerous studies have reported significantly elevated titers of serum autoantibody against the second extracellular loop of β1-adrenoceptor (β1-AA), a catecholamine-like substance with β1-adrenergic activity, in patients with heart failure. Although evidence demonstrates that this autoantibody may alter T cell proliferation and secretion, the role of T lymphocytes in heart failure induced by β1-AA remains unclear. The current study was designed to determine whether T cell disorder contributes to heart failure induced by β1-AA.

**METHODS AND RESULTS:** β1-AA monoclonal antibodies (β1-AAmAb) produced using the hybridoma technique were administered in wild-type mice or T lymphocyte deficiency nudes for 12 weeks. T lymphocytes from heart failure patients and neonatal cardiomyocytes were utilized in vitro. Mouse protein antibody array analysis was employed to detect the cytokines responsible for β1-AAmAb-induced heart failure. Compared to wild-type mice, T lymphocyte deficiency mice prevented cardiac function from getting worse, attenuated adverse remodeling, and ameliorated cardiomyocyte apoptosis and fibrosis. As shown by protein array, the serum level of interleukin (IL)-6 was significantly lower in the nude group as compared to wild-type after β1-AAmAb treatment. Mechanistic studies in vitro demonstrated that T lymphocyte culture supernatants stimulated by β1-AAmAb caused direct damage in the cardiomyocytes, and β1-AAmAb promoted proliferation of T lymphocytes isolated from patients with heart failure and increased IL-6 release. IL-6-specific siRNA virtually abolished cardiomyocyte apoptosis, suggesting that IL-6 may be a key cytokine released by T lymphocytes and responsible for β1-AAmAb-induced cardiac remodeling.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Collectively, we demonstrate that β1-AAmAb-induced cardiac remodeling via mediating T lymphocyte disorder and releasing a variety of IL-6.