---
reference_id: PMID:38899464
title: "CYP2C19 Genetic Testing for Oral P2Y12 Inhibitor Therapy: A Scientific Statement From the American Heart Association."
authors:
- Pereira NL
- Cresci S
- Angiolillo DJ
- Batchelor W
- Capers Q
- Cavallari LH
- Leifer D
- Luzum JA
- Roden DM
- Stellos K
- Turrise SL
- Tuteja S
- "American Heart Association Professional/Public Education and Publications Committee of the Council on Genomic and Precision Medicine; Council on Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis and Vascular Biology; Council on Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing; Council on Clinical Cardiology; Council on Peripheral Vascular Disease; and Stroke Council"
journal: Circulation
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001257
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:09:07+00:00'
---

# CYP2C19 Genetic Testing for Oral P2Y12 Inhibitor Therapy: A Scientific Statement From the American Heart Association.
**Authors:** Pereira NL, Cresci S, Angiolillo DJ, Batchelor W, Capers Q, Cavallari LH, Leifer D, Luzum JA, Roden DM, Stellos K, Turrise SL, Tuteja S, American Heart Association Professional/Public Education and Publications Committee of the Council on Genomic and Precision Medicine; Council on Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis and Vascular Biology; Council on Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing; Council on Clinical Cardiology; Council on Peripheral Vascular Disease; and Stroke Council
**Journal:** Circulation (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1161/CIR.0000000000001257](https://doi.org/10.1161/CIR.0000000000001257)

## Content

There is significant variability in the efficacy and safety of oral P2Y12 inhibitors, which are used to prevent ischemic outcomes in common diseases such as coronary and peripheral arterial disease and stroke. Clopidogrel, a prodrug, is the most used oral P2Y12 inhibitor and is activated primarily after being metabolized by a highly polymorphic hepatic cytochrome CYP2C219 enzyme. Loss-of-function genetic variants in CYP2C219 are common, can result in decreased active metabolite levels and increased on-treatment platelet aggregation, and are associated with increased ischemic events on clopidogrel therapy. Such patients can be identified by CYP2C19 genetic testing and can be treated with alternative therapy. Conversely, universal use of potent oral P2Y12 inhibitors such as ticagrelor or prasugrel, which are not dependent on CYP2C19 for activation, has been recommended but can result in increased bleeding. Recent clinical trials and meta-analyses have demonstrated that a precision medicine approach in which loss-of-function carriers are prescribed ticagrelor or prasugrel and noncarriers are prescribed clopidogrel results in reducing ischemic events without increasing bleeding risk. The evidence to date supports CYP2C19 genetic testing before oral P2Y12 inhibitors are prescribed in patients with acute coronary syndromes or percutaneous coronary intervention. Clinical implementation of such genetic testing will depend on among multiple factors: rapid availability of results or adoption of the concept of performing preemptive genetic testing, provision of easy-to-understand results with therapeutic recommendations, and seamless integration in the electronic health record.