---
reference_id: PMID:38643804
title: "Ticagrelor downregulates the expression of proatherogenic and proinflammatory miR125-b compared to clopidogrel: A randomized, controlled trial."
authors:
- Gasecka A
- Błażejowska E
- Pluta K
- Gajewska M
- Rogula S
- Filipiak KJ
- Kochman J
- Siller-Matula JM
- Postuła M
- Eyileten C
journal: International journal of cardiology
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2024.132073
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:09:36+00:00'
---

# Ticagrelor downregulates the expression of proatherogenic and proinflammatory miR125-b compared to clopidogrel: A randomized, controlled trial.
**Authors:** Gasecka A, Błażejowska E, Pluta K, Gajewska M, Rogula S, Filipiak KJ, Kochman J, Siller-Matula JM, Postuła M, Eyileten C
**Journal:** International journal of cardiology (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.ijcard.2024.132073](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijcard.2024.132073)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Platelet P2Y12 antagonist ticagrelor reduces cardiovascular mortality after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) compared to clopidogrel, but the underlying mechanism is unknown. Because activated platelets release proatherogenic and proinflammatory microRNAs, including miR-125a, miR-125b and miR-223, we hypothesized that the expression of these miRNAs is lower on ticagrelor, compared to clopidogrel.

**OBJECTIVES:** We compared miR-125a, miR-125b and miR-223 expression in plasma of patients after AMI treated with ticagrelor or clopidogrel.

**METHODS:** After percutaneous coronary intervention on acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel, 60 patients with first AMI were randomized to switch to ticagrelor or to continue with clopidogrel. Plasma expression of miR-223, miR-125a-5p, miR-125b was measured using quantitative polymerase chain reaction at baseline and after 72 h and 6 months of treatment with ticagrelor or clopidogrel in patients and one in 30 healthy volunteers. Multiple electrode aggregometry using ADP test was used to determine platelet reactivity in response to P2Y12 inhibitors.

**RESULTS:** Expression of miR-125b was higher in patients with AMI 72 h and 6 months, compared to healthy volunteers (p = 0.001), whereas expression of miR-125a-5p and miR-223 were comparable. In patients randomized to ticagrelor, expression of miR-125b decreased at 72 h (p = 0.007) and increased back to baseline at 6 months (p = 0.005). Expression of miR-125a-5p and miR-223 was not affected by the switch from clopidogrel to ticagrelor.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Ticagrelor treatment leads to lower plasma expression of miR-125b after AMI, compared to clopidogrel. Higher expression of miR-125b might explain recurrent thrombotic events and worse clinical outcomes in patients treated with clopidogrel, compared to ticagrelor.