---
reference_id: PMID:39240462
title: Insights into the structure and activation mechanism of some class B1 GPCR family members.
authors:
- Aksu H
- Demirbilek A
- Uba AI
journal: Molecular biology reports
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1007/s11033-024-09876-w
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:04:38+00:00'
---

# Insights into the structure and activation mechanism of some class B1 GPCR family members.
**Authors:** Aksu H, Demirbilek A, Uba AI
**Journal:** Molecular biology reports (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s11033-024-09876-w](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11033-024-09876-w)

## Content

In humans, 15 genes encode the class B1 family of GPCRs, which are polypeptide hormone receptors characterized by having a large N-terminal extracellular domain (ECD) and receive signals from outside the cell to activate cellular response. For example, the insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) stimulates the glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide receptor (GIPR), while the glucagon receptor (GCGR) responds to glucagon by increasing blood glucose levels and promoting the breakdown of liver glycogen to induce the production of insulin. The glucagon-like peptides 1 and 2 (GLP-1 and GLP-2) elicit a response from glucagon-like peptide receptor types 1 and 2 (GLP1R and GLP2R), respectively. Since these receptors are implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetes, studying their activation is crucial for the development of effective therapies for the condition. With more structural information being revealed by experimental methods such as X-ray crystallography, cryo-EM, and NMR, the activation mechanism of class B1 GPCRs becomes unraveled. The available crystal and cryo-EM structures reveal that class B1 GPCRs follow a two-step model for peptide binding and receptor activation. The regions close to the C-termini of hormones interact with the N-terminal ECD of the receptor while the regions close to the N-terminus of the peptide interact with the TM domain and transmit signals. This review highlights the structural details of class B1 GPCRs and their conformational changes following activation. The roles of MD simulation in characterizing those conformational changes are briefly discussed, providing insights into the potential structural exploration for future ligand designs.