---
reference_id: PMID:37161789
title: "Intrahippocampal injection of a selective blocker of NMDA receptors containing the GluN2B subunit, Ro25-6981, increases glutamate neurotransmission and induces antidepressant-like effects."
authors:
- Doan J
- Defaix C
- Mendez-David I
- Gardier AM
- Colle R
- Corruble E
- McGowan JC
- David DJ
- Guilloux JP
- Tritschler L
journal: "Fundamental & clinical pharmacology"
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1111/fcp.12917
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:46:42+00:00'
---

# Intrahippocampal injection of a selective blocker of NMDA receptors containing the GluN2B subunit, Ro25-6981, increases glutamate neurotransmission and induces antidepressant-like effects.
**Authors:** Doan J, Defaix C, Mendez-David I, Gardier AM, Colle R, Corruble E, McGowan JC, David DJ, Guilloux JP, Tritschler L
**Journal:** Fundamental & clinical pharmacology (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1111/fcp.12917](https://doi.org/10.1111/fcp.12917)

## Content

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a serious public health problem, as it is the most common psychiatric disorder worldwide. Antidepressant drugs increase adult hippocampal neurogenesis, which is required to induce some behavioral effects of antidepressants. Adult-born granule cells in the dentate gyrus (DG) and the glutamate receptors subunits 2 (GluN2B) subunit of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) ionotropic receptors play an important role in these effects. However, the precise neurochemical role of the GluN2B subunit of the NMDA receptor on adult-born GCs for antidepressant-like effects has yet to be elucidated. The present study aims to explore the contribution of the GluN2B-containing NMDA receptors in the ventral dentate gyrus (vDG) to the antidepressant drug treatment using a pharmacological approach. Thus, (αR)-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-(βS)-methyl-4-(phenylmethyl)-1-piperidinepropanol (Ro25-6981), a selective antagonist of the GluN2B subunit, was acutely administered locally into the ventral DG (vDG, 1 μg each side) following a chronic fluoxetine (18 mg/kg/day) treatment-known to increase adult hippocampal neurogenesis-in a mouse model of anxiety/depression. Responses in a neurogenesis-dependent task, the novelty suppressed feeding (NSF), and neurochemical consequences on extracellular glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels in the vDG were measured. Here, we show a rapid-acting antidepressant-like effect of local Ro25-6981 administration in the NSF independent of fluoxetine treatment. Furthermore, we revealed a fluoxetine-independent increase in the glutamatergic transmission in the vDG. Our results suggest behavioral and neurochemical effects of GluN2B subunit independent of serotonin reuptake inhibition.