---
reference_id: PMID:25595881
title: "Clinical use of Haemate® P in von Willebrand disease: a 25-year retrospective observational study."
authors:
- Miesbach W
- Krekeler S
- Wolf Z
- Seifried E
journal: Thrombosis research
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2014.12.017
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:38:41+00:00'
---

# Clinical use of Haemate® P in von Willebrand disease: a 25-year retrospective observational study.
**Authors:** Miesbach W, Krekeler S, Wolf Z, Seifried E
**Journal:** Thrombosis research (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.thromres.2014.12.017](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.thromres.2014.12.017)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** von Willebrand disease (VWD) is caused by dysfunction or diminished levels of von Willebrand factor (VWF). VWF-containing plasma concentrates are used for treatment of patients with VWD for whom desmopressin treatment is insufficient or contraindicated. A single-centre, retrospective observational study over a period of up to 25 years was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness and safety profile of Haemate(®) P (CSL Behring, Marburg, Germany), a plasma-derived, purified, pasteurised and lyophilised VWF-containing factor VIII (FVIII) concentrate.

**MATERIALS AND METHODS:** The study included 71 patients who had been treated with Haemate(®) P over a period of > 5 years.

**RESULTS:** A total of 663 treatments with individual laboratory evaluations were recorded. Two patients had both mild type 1 VWD and haemophilia A (HA), three had HA only, 39 had type 1 VWD, 16 had type 2 VWD, nine had type 3 VWD, one had acquired VWD and one had uncategorised VWD. Haemate(®) P treatment indications included bleeding events (37 patients) and surgical interventions (70 patients). Thirteen patients received Haemate(®) P as long-term prophylaxis (n = 3), as part of rehabilitation treatment (n = 5), or in context of recovery measurements (n = 5). Treatment with Haemate(®) P was generally well tolerated; only one thromboembolic event occurred. In cases of bleeding events, Haemate(®) P was haemostatically effective in all patients. Furthermore, during operations where Haemate(®) P was administered, >90% incurred no complications.

**CONCLUSION:** In this retrospective observational study, Haemate(®) P was shown to be effective and safe for the treatment of VWD in adult patients.