---
reference_id: PMID:26980433
title: The lack of aspirin resistance in patients with coronary artery disease.
authors:
- Homoródi N
- Kovács EG
- Leé S
- Katona É
- Shemirani AH
- Haramura G
- Balogh L
- Bereczky Z
- Szőke G
- Péterfy H
- Kiss RG
- Édes I
- Muszbek L
journal: Journal of translational medicine
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1186/s12967-016-0827-7
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:00:42+00:00'
---

# The lack of aspirin resistance in patients with coronary artery disease.
**Authors:** Homoródi N, Kovács EG, Leé S, Katona É, Shemirani AH, Haramura G, Balogh L, Bereczky Z, Szőke G, Péterfy H, Kiss RG, Édes I, Muszbek L
**Journal:** Journal of translational medicine (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1186/s12967-016-0827-7](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12967-016-0827-7)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Aspirin resistance established by different laboratory methods is still a debated problem. Using COX1 specific methods no aspirin resistance was detected among healthy volunteers. Here we tested the effect of chronic aspirin treatment on platelets from patients with stable coronary artery disease. The expression of COX2 mRNA in platelets and its influences on the effect of aspirin was also investigated.

**METHODS:** One hundred and forty four patients were enrolled in the study. The direct measurement of COX1 acetylation was carried out by monoclonal antibodies specific to acetylated and non-acetylated COX1 (acCOX1 and nacCOX1) using Western blotting technique. Arachidonic acid (AA) induced TXB2 production by platelets was measured by competitive immunoassay. AA induced platelet aggregation, ATP secretion and VerifyNow Aspirin Assay were also performed. COX2 and COX1 mRNA expression in platelets were measured in 56 patients by RT-qPCR.

**RESULTS:** In 138 patients only acCOX1 was detected, in the remaining six patients nacCOX1 disappeared after a compliance period. AA induced TXB2 production by platelets was very low in all patients including the 6 patients after compliance. AA induced platelet aggregation, secretion and with a few exceptions the VerifyNow Assay also demonstrated the effect of aspirin. Smoking, diabetes mellitus and inflammatory conditions did not influence the results. The very low amount of COX2 mRNA detected in 39 % of the investigated platelets did not influence the effect of aspirin.

**CONCLUSIONS:** No aspirin resistance was detected among patients with stable coronary artery disease. COX2 expression in platelets did not influence the effect of aspirin.