---
reference_id: PMID:34512664
title: "Sex Differences in Primary HIV Infection: Revisiting the Role of TLR7-Driven Type 1 IFN Production by Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cells in Women."
authors:
- Guéry JC
journal: Frontiers in immunology
year: '2021'
doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.729233
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:58:04+00:00'
---

# Sex Differences in Primary HIV Infection: Revisiting the Role of TLR7-Driven Type 1 IFN Production by Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cells in Women.
**Authors:** Guéry JC
**Journal:** Frontiers in immunology (2021)
**DOI:** [10.3389/fimmu.2021.729233](https://doi.org/10.3389/fimmu.2021.729233)

## Content

Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) produce type I interferon (IFN-I) during HIV-1 infection in response to TLR7 stimulation. However, IFN-I-signaling has been shown to play opposite effects in HIV-1 and SIV infection. TLR7-driven type I interferon production in pDCs is higher in women than in men due to the cell-intrinsic actions of estrogen and X-chromosome complement. Indeed, TLR7 is encoded on the X-chromosome, and the TLR7 gene escapes the X-chromosome inactivation in immune cells of women which express significantly higher levels of TLR7 protein than male cells. Following HIV infection, women have a lower viremia during acute infection and exhibit stronger antiviral responses than men, which has been attributed to the increased capacity of female pDCs to produce IFN-α upon TLR7-stimulation. However, a deleterious functional impact of an excessive TLR7 response on acute viremia in women has been recently revealed by the analysis of the frequent rs179008 c.32A>T SNP of TLR7. This SNP was identified as a sex-specific protein abundance quantitative trait locus (pQTL) causing a difference in the TLR7 protein dosage and effector function in females only. T allele expression was associated with a lower TLR7 protein synthesis, blunted production of IFN-α by pDCs upon TLR7 stimulation, and an unexpectedly lower viral load during primary HIV-1 infection in women. In the present review, the author will revisit the role of TLR7-driven pDC innate function in the context of HIV-1 infection to discuss at what stage of primary HIV-1 infection the TLR7 rs179008 T allele is likely to be protective in women.