---
reference_id: PMID:39410894
title: Resveratrol Neuroprotective Action Against Cognitive Impairments Induced by Lorazepam in Male Rats.
authors:
- Chakraborty AK
- Tiwari P
- Khobragade DS
- Kadiri SK
- Sheikh IA
- Thakur J
journal: Current drug safety
year: '2025'
doi: 10.2174/0115748863312358240919103439
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:52:35+00:00'
---

# Resveratrol Neuroprotective Action Against Cognitive Impairments Induced by Lorazepam in Male Rats.
**Authors:** Chakraborty AK, Tiwari P, Khobragade DS, Kadiri SK, Sheikh IA, Thakur J
**Journal:** Current drug safety (2025)
**DOI:** [10.2174/0115748863312358240919103439](https://doi.org/10.2174/0115748863312358240919103439)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION/AIM:** The study examines how chronic resveratrol administration affects behavioral and neurochemical changes caused by Lorazepam (LZP), a classical anti-anxiety medicine associated with neurodegenerative and neurological problems.

**METHOD:** Forty male rats were placed into four groups: a control group receiving 1% Tween 80, the LZP group receiving 2 mg/kg/day, the Resveratrol group receiving 50 mg/kg/day, and the LZP plus resveratrol group receiving the same doses of LZP and Resveratrol. Oral therapy was given daily for 6 weeks. The animals were euthanized after open field and Y maze behavioral tests. In specific brain regions, neurochemical analyses were performed on GABA, glutamic acid, monoamines (norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin) and their metabolites, DNA fragmentation (8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine or 8-HdG), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and Ca-ATPase.

**RESULTS:** Resveratrol therapy improved GABA, glutamic acid, monoamines, and their metabolites in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and striatum. Additionally, it reduced DNA fragmentation (8- HdG) and counteracted LZP-induced Ca-ATPase downregulation at a significant level (p < 0.05). Resveratrol also reversed LZP-induced behavioral changes in the Y maze and open field tests.

**CONCLUSION:** Resveratrol has anxiolytic-like actions like benzodiazepines and neuroprotective capabilities against LZP-induced adverse effects.