---
reference_id: PMID:25037855
title: Adalimumab regulates intracellular TNFα production in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
authors:
- Zamora-Atenza C
- Diaz-Torne C
- Geli C
- Diaz-Lopez C
- Ortiz MA
- Moya P
- Castellví I
- Nieto JC
- Cantó E
- Casademont J
- Juarez C
- Llobet JM
- Vidal S
journal: "Arthritis research & therapy"
year: '2014'
doi: 10.1186/ar4615
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:01:22+00:00'
---

# Adalimumab regulates intracellular TNFα production in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
**Authors:** Zamora-Atenza C, Diaz-Torne C, Geli C, Diaz-Lopez C, Ortiz MA, Moya P, Castellví I, Nieto JC, Cantó E, Casademont J, Juarez C, Llobet JM, Vidal S
**Journal:** Arthritis research & therapy (2014)
**DOI:** [10.1186/ar4615](https://doi.org/10.1186/ar4615)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** Adalimumab is a fully human anti-tumor necrosis factor α (anti-TNFα) monoclonal antibody that specifically blocks the interaction of TNFα with its receptors. It binds both soluble and transmembrane TNFα. We hypothesized that blocking these TNFα signals regulates the altered TNFα production in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients.

**METHODS:** We compared, by flow cytometry, Toll-like receptor induction levels of membrane and intracellular TNFα in monocytes (iTNFα + CD14+ cells) from 12 patients before and after adalimumab treatment with those from 5 healthy donors.

**RESULTS:** Before starting the treatment, the percentage of iTNFα+ CD14+ cells in the RA patients was significantly lower than that in healthy donors (mean ± SEM = 33.16 ± 4.82% vs 66.51 ± 2.4%, P < 0.001). When we added in vitro TNFα to healthy donor culture cells, levels of iTNFα+ CD14+ cells decreased, suggesting that the TNFα signal was responsible for the iTNFα+ CD14+ cell downregulation observed in the RA patients. After 2, 6 and 12 adalimumab injections, we observed significant blocking of membrane and soluble TNFα and a progressive increase in iTNFα+ CD14+ cells in ten patients with a good to moderate response as defined by the European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) criteria. Levels of iTNFα+ CD14+ cells after 12 injections in these 10 patients were comparable to levels in healthy donors. In two patients, iTNFα+ CD14+ cell upregulation was not observed, and their EULAR-defined responses had not improved. The first patient developed antiadalimumab antibodies, explaining why adalimumab was not able to block membrane and soluble TNFα. In the second patient, adalimumab was discontinued because of adverse effects, which led to a decrease in iTNFα+ CD14+ cells to levels measured before treatment.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Our findings suggest that adalimumab treatment in RA patients can return iTNFα levels to those of healthy donors. This effect was not observed in the presence of neutralizing antiadalimumab antibodies.