---
reference_id: PMID:32908630
title: "Role of the Platelets and Nitric Oxide Biotransformation in Ischemic Stroke: A Translative Review from Bench to Bedside."
authors:
- Bladowski M
- Gawrys J
- Gajecki D
- Szahidewicz-Krupska E
- Sawicz-Bladowska A
- Doroszko A
journal: Oxidative medicine and cellular longevity
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1155/2020/2979260
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:09:56+00:00'
---

# Role of the Platelets and Nitric Oxide Biotransformation in Ischemic Stroke: A Translative Review from Bench to Bedside.
**Authors:** Bladowski M, Gawrys J, Gajecki D, Szahidewicz-Krupska E, Sawicz-Bladowska A, Doroszko A
**Journal:** Oxidative medicine and cellular longevity (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1155/2020/2979260](https://doi.org/10.1155/2020/2979260)

## Content

Ischemic stroke remains the fifth cause of death, as reported worldwide annually. Endothelial dysfunction (ED) manifesting with lower nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability leads to increased vascular tone, inflammation, and platelet activation and remains among the major contributors to cardiovascular diseases (CVD). Moreover, temporal fluctuations in the NO bioavailability during ischemic stroke point to its key role in the cerebral blood flow (CBF) regulation, and some data suggest that they may be responsible for the maintenance of CBF within the ischemic penumbra in order to reduce infarct size. Several years ago, the inhibitory role of the platelet NO production on a thrombus formation has been discovered, which initiated the era of extensive studies on the platelet-derived nitric oxide (PDNO) as a platelet negative feedback regulator. Very recently, Radziwon-Balicka et al. discovered two subpopulations of human platelets, based on the expression of the endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS-positive or eNOS-negative platelets, respectively). The e-NOS-negative ones fail to produce NO, which attenuates their cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) signaling pathway and-as result-promotes adhesion and aggregation while the e-NOS-positive ones limit thrombus formation. Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), a competitive NOS inhibitor, is an independent cardiovascular risk factor, and its expression alongside with the enzymes responsible for its synthesis and degradation was recently shown also in platelets. Overproduction of ADMA in this compartment may increase platelet activation and cause endothelial damage, additionally to that induced by its plasma pool. All the recent discoveries of diverse eNOS expression in platelets and its role in regulation of thrombus formation together with studies on the NOS inhibitors have opened a new chapter in translational medicine investigating the onset of acute cardiovascular events of ischemic origin. This translative review briefly summarizes the role of platelets and NO biotransformation in the pathogenesis and clinical course of ischemic stroke.