---
reference_id: PMID:35999173
title: "Consequences: Bench to home."
authors:
- Kapur J
- Long L
- Dixon-Salazar T
journal: Epilepsia
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1111/epi.17342
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:52:13+00:00'
---

# Consequences: Bench to home.
**Authors:** Kapur J, Long L, Dixon-Salazar T
**Journal:** Epilepsia (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1111/epi.17342](https://doi.org/10.1111/epi.17342)

## Content

Seizure clusters (also referred to as acute repetitive seizures) consist of several seizures interspersed with brief interictal periods. Seizure clusters can break down γ-aminobutyric acidergic (GABAergic) inhibition of dentate granule cells, leading to hyperactivation. Functional changes to GABAA receptors, which play a vital neuroinhibitory role, can include altered GABAA receptor subunit trafficking and cellular localization, intracellular chloride accumulation, and dysregulation of proteins critical to chloride homeostasis. A reduction in neuroinhibition and potentiation of excitatory neurotransmission in CA1 pyramidal neurons represent pathological mechanisms that underlie seizure clusters. Benzodiazepines are well-established treatments for seizure clusters; however, there remain barriers to appropriate care. At the clinical level, there is variability in seizure cluster definitions, such as the number and/or type of seizures associated with a cluster as well as the interictal duration between seizures. This can lead to delays in diagnosis and timely treatment. There are gaps in understanding between clinicians, their patients, and caregivers regarding acute treatment for seizure clusters, such as the use of rescue medications and emergency services. This lack of consensus to define seizure clusters in addition to a lack of education for appropriate treatment can affect quality of life for patients and place a greater burden on patient families and caregivers. For patients with seizure clusters, the sense of unpredictability can lead to continuous traumatic stress, during which patients and families live with a heightened level of anxiety. Clinicians can affect patient quality of life and clinical outcomes through improved seizure cluster education and treatment, such as the development and implementation of a personalized seizure action plan as well as prescriptions for suitable rescue medications indicated for seizure clusters and instructions for their proper use. In all, the combination of targeted therapy along with patient education and support can improve quality of life.