---
reference_id: PMID:32648149
title: Targeting the forkhead box protein P1 pathway as a novel therapeutic approach for cardiovascular diseases.
authors:
- Liu XM
- Du SL
- Miao R
- Wang LF
- Zhong JC
journal: Heart failure reviews
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1007/s10741-020-09992-2
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:01:46+00:00'
---

# Targeting the forkhead box protein P1 pathway as a novel therapeutic approach for cardiovascular diseases.
**Authors:** Liu XM, Du SL, Miao R, Wang LF, Zhong JC
**Journal:** Heart failure reviews (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s10741-020-09992-2](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10741-020-09992-2)

## Content

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death worldwide and encompasses diverse diseases of the vasculature, myocardium, cardiac electrical circuit, and cardiac development. Forkhead box protein P1 (Foxp1) is a large multi-domain transcriptional regulator belonging to the Fox family with winged helix DNA-binding protein, which plays critical roles in cardiovascular homeostasis and disorders. The broad distribution of Foxp1 and alternative splicing isoforms implicate its distinct functions in diverse cardiac and vascular cells and tissue types. Foxp1 is essential for diverse biological processes and has been shown to regulate cellular proliferation, apoptosis, oxidative stress, fibrosis, angiogenesis, cardiovascular remodeling, and dysfunction. Notably, both loss-of-function and gain-of-function approaches have defined critical roles of Foxp1 in CVD. Genetic deletion of Foxp1 results in pathological cardiac remodeling, exacerbation of atherosclerotic lesion formation, prolonged occlusive thrombus formation, severe cardiac defects, and embryo death. In contrast, activation of Foxp1 performs a wide range of physiological effects, including cell growth, hypertrophy, differentiation, angiogenesis, and cardiac development. More importantly, Foxp1 exerts anti-inflammatory and anti-atherosclerotic effects in controlling coronary thrombus formation and myocardial infarction (MI). Thus, targeting for Foxp1 signaling has emerged as a pre-warning biomarker and a novel therapeutic approach against progression of CVD, and an increased understanding of cardiovascular actions of the Foxp1 signaling will help to develop effective interventions. In this review, we focus on the diverse actions and underlying mechanisms of Foxp1 highlighting its roles in CVD, including heart failure, MI, atherosclerosis, congenital heart defects, and atrial fibrillation.