---
reference_id: PMID:37625592
title: Allopurinol and oxypurinol differ in their strength and mechanisms of inhibition of xanthine oxidoreductase.
authors:
- Sekine M
- Okamoto K
- Pai EF
- Nagata K
- Ichida K
- Hille R
- Nishino T
journal: The Journal of biological chemistry
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1016/j.jbc.2023.105189
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:35:02+00:00'
---

# Allopurinol and oxypurinol differ in their strength and mechanisms of inhibition of xanthine oxidoreductase.
**Authors:** Sekine M, Okamoto K, Pai EF, Nagata K, Ichida K, Hille R, Nishino T
**Journal:** The Journal of biological chemistry (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jbc.2023.105189](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbc.2023.105189)

## Content

Xanthine oxidoreductase is a metalloenzyme that catalyzes the final steps in purine metabolism by converting hypoxanthine to xanthine and then uric acid. Allopurinol, an analog of hypoxanthine, is widely used as an antigout drug, as xanthine oxidoreductase-mediated metabolism of allopurinol to oxypurinol leads to oxypurinol rotation in the enzyme active site and reduction of the molybdenum Mo(VI) active center to Mo(IV), inhibiting subsequent urate production. However, when oxypurinol is administered directly to a mouse model of hyperuricemia, it yields a weaker urate-lowering effect than allopurinol. To better understand its mechanism of inhibition and inform patient dosing strategies, we performed kinetic and structural analyses of the inhibitory activity of oxypurinol. Our results demonstrated that oxypurinol was less effective than allopurinol both in vivo and in vitro. We show that upon reoxidation to Mo(VI), oxypurinol binding is greatly weakened, and reduction by xanthine, hypoxanthine, or allopurinol is required for reformation of the inhibitor-enzyme complex. In addition, we show oxypurinol only weakly inhibits the conversion of hypoxanthine to xanthine and is therefore unlikely to affect the feedback inhibition of de novo purine synthesis. Furthermore, we observed weak allosteric inhibition of purine nucleoside phosphorylase by oxypurinol which has potentially adverse effects for patients. Considering these results, we propose the single-dose method currently used to treat hyperuricemia can result in unnecessarily high levels of allopurinol. While the short half-life of allopurinol in blood suggests that oxypurinol is responsible for enzyme inhibition, we anticipate multiple, smaller doses of allopurinol would reduce the total allopurinol patient load.