---
reference_id: PMID:16820589
title: "Endothelial Protection, AT1 blockade and Cholesterol-Dependent Oxidative Stress: the EPAS trial."
authors:
- Morawietz H
- Erbs S
- Holtz J
- Schubert A
- Krekler M
- Goettsch W
- Kuss O
- Adams V
- Lenk K
- Mohr FW
- Schuler G
- Hambrecht R
journal: Circulation
year: '2006'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:54:41+00:00'
---

# Endothelial Protection, AT1 blockade and Cholesterol-Dependent Oxidative Stress: the EPAS trial.
**Authors:** Morawietz H, Erbs S, Holtz J, Schubert A, Krekler M, Goettsch W, Kuss O, Adams V, Lenk K, Mohr FW, Schuler G, Hambrecht R
**Journal:** Circulation (2006)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Statins and angiotensin type 1 (AT1) receptor blockers reduce cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. In the Endothelial Protection, AT1 blockade and Cholesterol-Dependent Oxidative Stress (EPAS) trial, impact of independent or combined statin and AT1 receptor blocker therapy on endothelial expression of anti-atherosclerotic and proatherosclerotic genes and endothelial function in arteries of patients with coronary artery disease were tested.

**METHODS AND RESULTS:** Sixty patients with stable coronary artery disease undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery were randomized 4 weeks before surgery to: (A) control without inhibition of renin-angiotensin system or statin; (B) statin (pravastatin 40 mg/d); (C) AT1 blockade (irbesartan 150 mg/d); or (D) combination of statin and AT1 blocker in same dosages. Primary end point was a priori therapy-dependent regulation of an anti-atherosclerotic endothelial expression quotient Q including mRNA expression (in arbitrary units measured by real-time polymerase chain reaction) of endothelial nitric oxide synthase and C-type natriuretic peptide, divided by expression of oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor LOX-1 and NAD(P)H oxidase subunit gp91phox in left internal mammary arteries biopsies obtained by CABG surgery; 49 patients completed the study. Statin therapy increased lnQ from 3.2+/-0.4 to 4.4+/-0.4 significantly versus control. AT(1) blockade showed a trend to increase lnQ to 4.2+/-0.5. Combination of statin and AT1 blocker further increased lnQ to 5.1+/-0.6, but a putative interaction of both therapies in lnQ was not significant. Furthermore, preoperative therapy with statin, AT1 blocker and their combination improved endothelial function in internal mammary artery rings.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Statin and AT1 blocker therapy independently and in combination improve an anti-atherosclerotic endothelial expression quotient and endothelial function.