---
reference_id: PMID:18697207
title: "Improved outcomes in patients with hepatitis C with difficult-to-treat characteristics: randomized study of higher doses of peginterferon alpha-2a and ribavirin."
authors:
- Fried MW
- Jensen DM
- Rodriguez-Torres M
- Nyberg LM
- Di Bisceglie AM
- Morgan TR
- Pockros PJ
- Lin A
- Cupelli L
- Duff F
- Wang K
- Nelson DR
journal: "Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)"
year: '2008'
doi: 10.1002/hep.22448
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:48:36+00:00'
---

# Improved outcomes in patients with hepatitis C with difficult-to-treat characteristics: randomized study of higher doses of peginterferon alpha-2a and ribavirin.
**Authors:** Fried MW, Jensen DM, Rodriguez-Torres M, Nyberg LM, Di Bisceglie AM, Morgan TR, Pockros PJ, Lin A, Cupelli L, Duff F, Wang K, Nelson DR
**Journal:** Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.) (2008)
**DOI:** [10.1002/hep.22448](https://doi.org/10.1002/hep.22448)

## Content

**UNLABELLED:** Treatment response remains suboptimal for many patients with chronic hepatitis C, particularly those with genotype 1 and high levels of viremia. The efficacy of high-dose regimens of peginterferon alfa-2a and ribavirin was compared with conventional dose regimens in patients with features predicting poor treatment responses. Eligible treatment-naïve adults with genotype 1 infection, hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA >800,000 IU/mL and body weight >85 kg were randomized to double-blind treatment with peginterferon alfa-2a at 180 or 270 microg/week plus ribavirin at 1200 or 1600 mg/day for 48 weeks (four regimens were evaluated). The primary endpoint was viral kinetics during the first 24 weeks of therapy. Among patients receiving peginterferon alfa-2a (270 microg/week) the magnitude of HCV RNA reduction was significantly greater than for patients randomized to the conventional dose of peginterferon alfa-2a (180 microg/week) for the pairwise comparison for ribavirin at 1600 mg/day (P = 0.036) and numerically greater for the pairwise comparison for ribavirin at 1200 mg/day (P = 0.060). Patients randomized to the highest doses of peginterferon alfa-2a (270 microg/week) and ribavirin (1600 mg/day) experienced the numerically highest rates of sustained virologic response (HCV RNA < 50 IU/mL) and the lowest relapse rate (47% and 19%, respectively). The arm with the higher doses of both drugs was less well-tolerated than the other regimens.

**CONCLUSION:** Higher fixed doses of peginterferon alfa-2a (270 microg/week) and ribavirin (1600 mg/day) may increase sustained virologic response rates compared with lower doses of both drugs in patients with a cluster of difficult-to-treat characteristics.