---
reference_id: PMID:37716509
title: Alpha-tocopherylquinone-mediated activation of the Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor regulates the production of inflammation-inducing cytokines and ameliorates intestinal inflammation.
authors:
- Saha K
- Subramenium Ganapathy A
- Wang A
- Arumugam P
- Michael Morris N
- Harris L
- Yochum G
- Koltun W
- Perdew GH
- Nighot M
- Ma T
- Nighot P
journal: Mucosal immunology
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1016/j.mucimm.2023.09.003
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:56:00+00:00'
---

# Alpha-tocopherylquinone-mediated activation of the Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor regulates the production of inflammation-inducing cytokines and ameliorates intestinal inflammation.
**Authors:** Saha K, Subramenium Ganapathy A, Wang A, Arumugam P, Michael Morris N, Harris L, Yochum G, Koltun W, Perdew GH, Nighot M, Ma T, Nighot P
**Journal:** Mucosal immunology (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.mucimm.2023.09.003](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mucimm.2023.09.003)

## Content

This study investigated the role of Alpha-tocopherylquinone (TQ) in regulating the intestinal immune system and the underlying mechanisms. In the experimental dextran sodium sulfate and T cell-mediated colitis models, TQ significantly reduced the mRNA levels of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1β, IL-17A, IL-23, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and the abundance of proinflammatory macrophages, T helper (Th)17 cells, and ILC3s in the colons of wild-type mice. TQ also prevented lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced activation of NFκB and signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat)-3 pathways in the human macrophage U937 cells. Pharmacological inhibition or CRISPR-Cas-9-mediated knockout of Aryl hydrocarbon Receptor (AhR) prevented the anti-inflammatory effects of TQ in the LPS-treated U937 cells. Furthermore, TQ reduced the mRNA levels of the LPS-induced pro-inflammatory cytokines in the WT but not Ahr-/- mice splenocytes. TQ also reduced IL-6R protein levels and IL-6-induced Stat-3 activation in Jurkat cells and in vitro differentiation of Th17 cells from wild-type but not Ahr-/- mice naive T cells. Additionally, TQ prevented the pro-inflammatory effects of LPS on macrophages and stimulation of T cells in human PBMCs and significantly reduced the abundance of tumor necrosis factor-α, IL-1β, and IL-6hi inflammatory macrophages and Th17 cells in surgically resected Crohn's disease (CD) tissue. Our study shows that TQ is a naturally occurring, non-toxic, and effective immune modulator that activates AhR and suppresses the Stat-3-NFκB signaling.