---
reference_id: PMID:33199626
title: The antibiotic sorangicin A inhibits promoter DNA unwinding in a Mycobacterium tuberculosis rifampicin-resistant RNA polymerase.
authors:
- Lilic M
- Chen J
- Boyaci H
- Braffman N
- Hubin EA
- Herrmann J
- Müller R
- Mooney R
- Landick R
- Darst SA
- Campbell EA
journal: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1073/pnas.2013706117
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T18:58:31+00:00'
---

# The antibiotic sorangicin A inhibits promoter DNA unwinding in a Mycobacterium tuberculosis rifampicin-resistant RNA polymerase.
**Authors:** Lilic M, Chen J, Boyaci H, Braffman N, Hubin EA, Herrmann J, Müller R, Mooney R, Landick R, Darst SA, Campbell EA
**Journal:** Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1073/pnas.2013706117](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2013706117)

## Content

Rifampicin (Rif) is a first-line therapeutic used to treat the infectious disease tuberculosis (TB), which is caused by the pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). The emergence of Rif-resistant (RifR) Mtb presents a need for new antibiotics. Rif targets the enzyme RNA polymerase (RNAP). Sorangicin A (Sor) is an unrelated inhibitor that binds in the Rif-binding pocket of RNAP. Sor inhibits a subset of RifR RNAPs, including the most prevalent clinical RifR RNAP substitution found in Mtb infected patients (S456>L of the β subunit). Here, we present structural and biochemical data demonstrating that Sor inhibits the wild-type Mtb RNAP by a similar mechanism as Rif: by preventing the translocation of very short RNAs. By contrast, Sor inhibits the RifR S456L enzyme at an earlier step, preventing the transition of a partially unwound promoter DNA intermediate to the fully opened DNA and blocking the template-strand DNA from reaching the active site in the RNAP catalytic center. By defining template-strand blocking as a mechanism for inhibition, we provide a mechanistic drug target in RNAP. Our finding that Sor inhibits the wild-type and mutant RNAPs through different mechanisms prompts future considerations for designing antibiotics against resistant targets. Also, we show that Sor has a better pharmacokinetic profile than Rif, making it a suitable starting molecule to design drugs to be used for the treatment of TB patients with comorbidities who require multiple medications.