---
reference_id: PMID:28242694
title: Receptor-interacting protein kinase 3 promotes platelet activation and thrombosis.
authors:
- Zhang Y
- Zhang J
- Yan R
- Tian J
- Zhang Y
- Zhang J
- Chen M
- Cui Q
- Zhao L
- Hu R
- Jiang M
- Li Z
- Ruan C
- He S
- Dai K
journal: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1073/pnas.1610963114
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:01:45+00:00'
---

# Receptor-interacting protein kinase 3 promotes platelet activation and thrombosis.
**Authors:** Zhang Y, Zhang J, Yan R, Tian J, Zhang Y, Zhang J, Chen M, Cui Q, Zhao L, Hu R, Jiang M, Li Z, Ruan C, He S, Dai K
**Journal:** Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1073/pnas.1610963114](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1610963114)

## Content

Previous studies have shown that receptor-interacting protein kinase 3 (RIP3) is involved in many important biological processes, including necroptosis, apoptosis, and inflammation. Here we show that RIP3 plays a critical role in regulating platelet functions and in vivo thrombosis and hemostasis. Tail bleeding times were significantly longer in RIP3-knockout (RIP3-/-) mice compared with their wild-type (WT) littermates. In an in vivo model of arteriole thrombosis, mice lacking RIP3 exhibited prolonged occlusion times. WT mice repopulated with RIP3-/- bone marrow-derived cells had longer occlusion times than RIP3-/- mice repopulated with WT bone marrow-derived cells, suggesting a role for RIP3-deficient platelets in arterial thrombosis. Consistent with these findings, we observed that RIP3 was expressed in both human and mice platelets. Deletion of RIP3 in mouse platelets caused a marked defect in aggregation and attenuated dense granule secretion in response to low doses of thrombin or a thromboxane A2 analog, U46619. Phosphorylation of Akt induced by U46619 or thrombin was diminished in RIP3-/- platelets. Moreover, RIP3 interacted with Gα13 Platelet spreading on fibrinogen and clot retraction were impaired in the absence of RIP3. RIP3 inhibitor dose-dependently inhibited platelet aggregation in vitro and prevented arterial thrombus formation in vivo. These data demonstrate a role for RIP3 in promoting in vivo thrombosis and hemostasis by amplifying platelet activation. RIP3 may represent a novel promising therapeutic target for thrombotic diseases.