---
reference_id: PMID:39071685
title: "Site specific binding pattern of benzodiazepines with GABAA receptor and related impact on their activities in the human body: An in silico method based study."
authors:
- Roy MS
- Sarkar BK
- Kundu SK
journal: Heliyon
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e33929
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:52:34+00:00'
---

# Site specific binding pattern of benzodiazepines with GABAA receptor and related impact on their activities in the human body: An in silico method based study.
**Authors:** Roy MS, Sarkar BK, Kundu SK
**Journal:** Heliyon (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e33929](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e33929)

## Content

Despite of being the drugs of the same therapeutic class (Benzodiazepines), each of them shows different actions prominently. It is commonly seen that Bromazepam, Clonazepam, and, Alprazolam are prescribed for the treatment of anxiety disorders, panic disorders, and phobias. On the other hand, Midazolam, Temazepam, Flurazepam, and Nitrazepam are indicated for the treatment of insomnia and Lorazepam is considered as a drug having anticonvulsant effects. As the mechanism of action is the same, there should be some differences in the binding patterns with the proteins that create differences in their impacts on the body. A deep screening of the binding patterns of the available Benzodiazepines in the market to the GABAA receptor will be beneficial to find out the responsible amino acids for being accountable for showing any specific action. This reveal will help design new molecules with the highest beneficial effect and lowest toxicity in the body. The in silico method provides the initial level of understanding regarding the binding patterns, performing in vitro and in vivo experiments will be more specific to claim the benefits of newly designed drugs.