---
reference_id: PMID:9088828
title: "Desmopressin--a haemostatic drug: state-of-the-art review."
authors:
- Lethagen S
journal: European journal of anaesthesiology. Supplement
year: '1997'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:38:43+00:00'
---

# Desmopressin--a haemostatic drug: state-of-the-art review.
**Authors:** Lethagen S
**Journal:** European journal of anaesthesiology. Supplement (1997)

## Content

Desmopressin is a well tolerated and convenient haemostatic drug that can be used in a number of clinical conditions with bleeding diathesis. It has several effects on the haemostatic system, causing endogenous release of coagulation factor VIII, von Willebrand factor, tissue plasminogen activator and also increasing platelet adhesiveness and shortening bleeding time. The effect is virtually immediate and lasts for several hours. Side-effects are few and mostly mild. Desmopressin is suitable for home use in selected patients with bleeding diathesis. The optimal dosage is 0.3 microgram kg-1 intravenously, but the drug may also be administered subcutaneously or intranasally. In addition to the established indications, haemophilia A, von Willebrand's disease and platelet dysfunction, the drug may also be used safely in other patients with unexpected bleeding during or after surgery. The effectiveness of general prophylactic use of desmopressin, in order to diminish surgical blood loss and transfusion requirements, has not been proven, except in patients with known bleeding diathesis caused by congenital or acquired haemostatic disorders, e.g. in those taking aspirin.