---
reference_id: PMID:9687413
title: "Mode of action of (1'S,2'R)-9-[[1',2'-bis(hydroxymethyl) cycloprop-1'-yl]methyl]guanine (A-5021) against herpes simplex virus type 1 and type 2 and varicella-zoster virus."
authors:
- Ono N
- Iwayama S
- Suzuki K
- Sekiyama T
- Nakazawa H
- Tsuji T
- Okunishi M
- Daikoku T
- Nishiyama Y
journal: Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy
year: '1998'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:31:18+00:00'
---

# Mode of action of (1'S,2'R)-9-[[1',2'-bis(hydroxymethyl) cycloprop-1'-yl]methyl]guanine (A-5021) against herpes simplex virus type 1 and type 2 and varicella-zoster virus.
**Authors:** Ono N, Iwayama S, Suzuki K, Sekiyama T, Nakazawa H, Tsuji T, Okunishi M, Daikoku T, Nishiyama Y
**Journal:** Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy (1998)

## Content

The mode of action of (1'S,2'R)-9-([1', 2'-bis(hydroxymethyl)cycloprop-1'-yl]methyl)guanine (A-5021) against herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), HSV-2, and varicella-zoster virus (VZV) was studied. A-5021 was monophosphorylated at the 2' site by viral thymidine kinases (TKs). The 50% inhibitory values for thymidine phosphorylation of A-5021 by HSV-1 TK and HSV-2 TK were comparable to those for penciclovir (PCV) and lower than those for acyclovir (ACV). Of these three agents, A-5021 inhibited VZV TK most efficiently. A-5021 was phosphorylated to a mono-, di-, and triphosphate in MRC-5 cells infected with HSV-1, HSV-2, and VZV. A-5021 triphosphate accumulated more than ACV triphosphate but less than PCV triphosphate in MRC-5 cells infected with HSV-1 or VZV, whereas HSV-2-infected MRC-5 cells had comparable levels of A-5021 and ACV triphosphates. The intracellular half-life of A-5021 triphosphate was considerably longer than that of ACV triphosphate and shorter than that of PCV triphosphate. A-5021 triphosphate competitively inhibited HSV DNA polymerases with respect to dGTP. Inhibition was strongest with ACV triphosphate, followed by A-5021 triphosphate and then (R,S)-PCV triphosphate. A DNA chain elongation experiment revealed that A-5021 triphosphate was incorporated into DNA instead of dGTP and terminated elongation, although limited chain extension was observed. Thus, the strong antiviral activity of A-5021 appears to depend on a more rapid and stable accumulation of its triphosphate in infected cells than that of ACV and on stronger inhibition of viral DNA polymerase by its triphosphate than that of PCV.