---
reference_id: PMID:36794422
title: Empagliflozin and Renal Sodium-Hydrogen Exchange in Healthy Subjects.
authors:
- Biancalana E
- Rossi C
- Raggi F
- Distaso M
- Tricò D
- Baldi S
- Ferrannini E
- Solini A
journal: The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1210/clinem/dgad088
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:36:21+00:00'
---

# Empagliflozin and Renal Sodium-Hydrogen Exchange in Healthy Subjects.
**Authors:** Biancalana E, Rossi C, Raggi F, Distaso M, Tricò D, Baldi S, Ferrannini E, Solini A
**Journal:** The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1210/clinem/dgad088](https://doi.org/10.1210/clinem/dgad088)

## Content

**CONTEXT:** Sodium glucose co-transporter-2 inhibitors exert clinically relevant cardiorenal protection. Among several mechanisms, inhibition of sodium-hydrogen exchanger-3 (NHE3) in proximal renal tubules has been proposed in rodents. Demonstration of this mechanism with the associated electrolyte and metabolic changes in humans is lacking.

**OBJECTIVE:** The present proof-of-concept study was designed to explore the involvement of NHE3 in modulating the response to sodium glucose co-transporter-2 inhibitors in humans.

**METHODS:** Twenty healthy male volunteers received 2 tablets of empagliflozin 25 mg during a standardized hydration scheme; freshly voided urines and blood samples were collected at timed intervals for 8 hours. Protein expression of relevant transporters was examined in exfoliated tubular cells.

**RESULTS:** Urine pH levels increased after empagliflozin (from 5.81 ± 0.5 to 6.16 ± 0.6 at 6 hours, P = .008) as did urinary output (from median, 1.7; interquartile range [IQR, 0.6; 2.5] to 2.5 [IQR, 1.7; 3.5] mL/min-1, P = .008) and glucose (from median, 0.03 [IQR, 0.02; 0.04] to 34.8 [IQR, 31.6; 40.2] %, P < .0001), and sodium fractional excretion rates (from median, 0.48 [IQR, 0.34; 0.65] to 0.71 [IQR, 0.55; 0.85] %, P = .0001), whereas plasma glucose and insulin concentrations decreased and plasma and urinary ketones increased. Nonsignificant changes in NHE3, phosphorylated NHE3, and membrane-associated protein 17 protein expression were detected in urinary exfoliated tubular cells. In a time-control study in 6 participants, neither urine pH nor plasma and urinary parameters changed.

**CONCLUSIONS:** In healthy young volunteers, empagliflozin acutely increases urinary pH while inducing a substrate shift toward lipid utilization and ketogenesis, without significant changes in renal NHE3 protein expression.