---
reference_id: PMID:35410356
title: Adenosine inhibits TNFα-induced MMP-3 production in MH7A rheumatoid arthritis synoviocytes via A2A receptor signaling.
authors:
- Konishi H
- Kanou SE
- Yukimatsu R
- Inui M
- Sato M
- Yamamoto N
- Nakano M
- Koshiba M
journal: Scientific reports
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-10012-6
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:54:04+00:00'
---

# Adenosine inhibits TNFα-induced MMP-3 production in MH7A rheumatoid arthritis synoviocytes via A2A receptor signaling.
**Authors:** Konishi H, Kanou SE, Yukimatsu R, Inui M, Sato M, Yamamoto N, Nakano M, Koshiba M
**Journal:** Scientific reports (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41598-022-10012-6](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-10012-6)

## Content

Adenosine causes the anti-inflammatory effect of MTX; however, the contributions of synoviocyte adenosine receptors (AdoRs) are unknown, and matrix metalloproteinase 3 (MMP-3) is released by fibroblast-like synoviocytes in response to inflammatory signaling. To understand the mechanism of the clinical observation that the matrix proteinase-3 concentration of patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated successfully with methotrexate does not usually normalize, we investigated the effects of A2A AdoR activation and inhibition on tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα)-induced MMP-3 release by MH7A human rheumatoid synovial cells. MH7A cells constitutively expressed membrane-associated A2A AdoRs, and HENECA enhanced intracellular cAMP. Stimulation with TNFα markedly enhanced release of MMP-3 from MH7A cells, whereas HENECA partially and dose-dependently inhibited TNFα-evoked MMP-3 release. Similarly, dbcAMP partially inhibited TNFα-induced MMP-3 release. Pretreatment with ZM241385 reversed the inhibitory effects of HENECA. Further, TNFα induced p38 MAPK and ATF-2 phosphorylation, whereas HENECA suppressed p38 MAPK and ATF-2 phosphorylation. We concluded that adenosine signaling via A2A AdoRs, adenylyl cyclase, and cAMP reduces TNFα-induced MMP-3 production by interfering with p38 MAPK/ATF-2 activity. Activation of A2A AdoR signaling alone using HENECA did not reduce TNFα-induced MMP-3 production to the basal levels, which may explain why MTX usually decreases but does not eliminate serum MMP-3.