---
reference_id: PMID:21346252
title: Vitamin C is dispensable for oxygen sensing in vivo.
authors:
- Nytko KJ
- Maeda N
- Schläfli P
- Spielmann P
- Wenger RH
- Stiehl DP
journal: Blood
year: '2011'
doi: 10.1182/blood-2010-09-307637
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:40:39+00:00'
---

# Vitamin C is dispensable for oxygen sensing in vivo.
**Authors:** Nytko KJ, Maeda N, Schläfli P, Spielmann P, Wenger RH, Stiehl DP
**Journal:** Blood (2011)
**DOI:** [10.1182/blood-2010-09-307637](https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2010-09-307637)

## Content

Prolyl-4-hydroxylation is necessary for proper structural assembly of collagens and oxygen-dependent protein stability of hypoxia-inducible transcription factors (HIFs). In vitro function of HIF prolyl-4-hydroxylase domain (PHD) enzymes requires oxygen and 2-oxoglutarate as cosubstrates with iron(II) and vitamin C serving as cofactors. Although vitamin C deficiency is known to cause the collagen-disassembly disease scurvy, it is unclear whether cellular oxygen sensing is similarly affected. Here, we report that vitamin C-deprived Gulo(-/-) knockout mice show normal HIF-dependent gene expression. The systemic response of Gulo(-/-) animals to inspiratory hypoxia, as measured by plasma erythropoietin levels, was similar to that of animals supplemented with vitamin C. Hypoxic HIF induction was also essentially normal under serum- and vitamin C-free cell-culture conditions, suggesting that vitamin C is not required for oxygen sensing in vivo. Glutathione was found to fully substitute for vitamin C requirement of all 3 PHD isoforms in vitro. Consistently, glutathione also reduced HIF-1α protein levels, transactivation activity, and endogenous target gene expression in cells exposed to CoCl(2). A Cys201Ser mutation in PHD2 increased basal hydroxylation rates and conferred resistance to oxidative damage in vitro, suggesting that this surface-accessible PHD2 cysteine residue is a target of antioxidative protection by vitamin C and glutathione.