---
reference_id: PMID:33795719
title: "Nectin-4 and p95-ErbB2 cooperatively regulate Hippo signaling-dependent SOX2 gene expression, enhancing anchorage-independent T47D cell proliferation."
authors:
- Kedashiro S
- Kameyama T
- Mizutani K
- Takai Y
journal: Scientific reports
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-86437-2
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:20:51+00:00'
---

# Nectin-4 and p95-ErbB2 cooperatively regulate Hippo signaling-dependent SOX2 gene expression, enhancing anchorage-independent T47D cell proliferation.
**Authors:** Kedashiro S, Kameyama T, Mizutani K, Takai Y
**Journal:** Scientific reports (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41598-021-86437-2](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-86437-2)

## Content

Nectin-4, upregulated in various cancer cells, cis-interacts with ErbB2 and its trastuzumab-resistant splice variants, p95-ErbB2 and ErbB2∆Ex16, enhancing DNA synthesis through the PI3K-AKT signaling in human breast cancer T47D cells in an adherent culture. We found here that nectin-4 and p95-ErbB2, but not nectin-4 and either ErbB2 or ErbB2∆Ex16, cooperatively enhanced SOX2 gene expression and cell proliferation in a suspension culture. This enhancement of T47D cell proliferation in a suspension culture by nectin-4 and p95-ErbB2 was dependent on the SOX2 gene expression. In T47D cells, nectin-4 and any one of p95-ErbB2, ErbB2, or ErbB2∆Ex16 cooperatively activated the PI3K-AKT signaling, known to induce the SOX2 gene expression, to similar extents. However, only a combination of nectin-4 and p95-ErbB2, but not that of nectin-4 and either ErbB2 or ErbB2∆Ex16, cooperatively enhanced the SOX2 gene expression. Detailed studies revealed that only nectin-4 and p95-ErbB2 cooperatively activated the Hippo signaling. YAP inhibited the SOX2 gene expression in this cell line and thus the MST1/2-LATS1/2 signaling-mediated YAP inactivation increased the SOX2 gene expression. These results indicate that only the combination of nectin-4 and p95-ErbB2, but not that of nectin-4 and either ErbB2 or ErbB2∆Ex16, cooperatively regulates the Hippo signaling-dependent SOX2 gene expression, enhancing anchorage-independent T47D cell proliferation.