---
reference_id: PMID:31282051
title: Twenty-four-week interim analysis from a phase 3 open-label trial of adalimumab in Japanese patients with moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa.
authors:
- Morita A
- Takahashi H
- Ozawa K
- Imafuku S
- Nakama T
- Takahashi K
- Matsuyama T
- Okubo Y
- Kitamura S
- Matsuda N
- Zhao Y
- Yokoyama M
- Hayashi N
- Terui T
journal: The Journal of dermatology
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1111/1346-8138.14997
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:01:01+00:00'
---

# Twenty-four-week interim analysis from a phase 3 open-label trial of adalimumab in Japanese patients with moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa.
**Authors:** Morita A, Takahashi H, Ozawa K, Imafuku S, Nakama T, Takahashi K, Matsuyama T, Okubo Y, Kitamura S, Matsuda N, Zhao Y, Yokoyama M, Hayashi N, Terui T
**Journal:** The Journal of dermatology (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1111/1346-8138.14997](https://doi.org/10.1111/1346-8138.14997)

## Content

Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a chronic skin disease characterized by recurrent painful inflamed nodules/abscesses and draining fistulas that negatively impact quality of life. Adalimumab, a monoclonal antibody against tumor necrosis factor-α, has been approved in the EU, USA and Japan for the treatment of moderate to severe HS. This is an interim analysis of an ongoing phase 3, multicenter, open-label, single-arm study of the safety and efficacy of adalimumab weekly dosing in Japanese patients with moderate to severe HS. Fifteen patients received adalimumab 160 mg at week 0, 80 mg at week 2 and 40 mg every week thereafter starting at week 4. The fulfillment of Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response was assessed under adalimumab treatment; clinical response was assessed by skin pain, total abscess and inflammatory nodule count and modified Sartorius score; and quality of life and safety were assessed. At week 12, 86.7% of patients achieved clinical response, with improvements at week 12 across the primary and secondary end points generally sustained through week 24. Adalimumab weekly dosing was generally safe and well tolerated with no new safety findings through week 24. These results suggest that adalimumab is effective and well tolerated in Japanese patients with moderate to severe HS.