---
reference_id: PMID:25259546
title: "Time of administration important? Morning versus evening dosing of valsartan."
authors:
- Zappe DH
- Crikelair N
- Kandra A
- Palatini P
journal: Journal of hypertension
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000000397
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:05:36+00:00'
---

# Time of administration important? Morning versus evening dosing of valsartan.
**Authors:** Zappe DH, Crikelair N, Kandra A, Palatini P
**Journal:** Journal of hypertension (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1097/HJH.0000000000000397](https://doi.org/10.1097/HJH.0000000000000397)

## Content

**OBJECTIVE:** Studies suggest that bedtime dosing of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker shows a more sustained and consistent 24-h antihypertensive profile, including greater night-time blood pressure (BP) reduction. We compared the antihypertensive effects of morning (a.m.) and evening (p.m.) dosing of valsartan on 24-h BP.

**METHODS:** This 26-week, multicentre, randomized, double-blind study evaluated the efficacy and safety of valsartan 320 mg, dosed a.m. or p.m., versus lisinopril 40 mg (a.m.), a long-acting ACE-inhibitor, in patients with grade 1-2 hypertension and at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor. Patients (n = 1093; BP = 156 ± 11/91 ± 8 mmHg; 62 years, 56% male, 99% white) received (1 : 1 : 1) valsartan 160 mg a.m. or p.m. or lisinopril 20 mg a.m. for 4 weeks, then force-titrated to double the initial dose for 8 weeks. At Week 12, hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) 12.5 mg was added for 14 weeks if office BP was more than 140/90 mmHg and/or ambulatory BP more than 130/80 mmHg.

**RESULTS:** Mean 24-h ambulatory SBP change from baseline to Weeks 12 and 26 was comparable between valsartan a.m. (-10.6 and -13.3 mmHg) and p.m. (-9.8 and -12.3 mmHg) and lisinopril (-10.7 and -13.7 mmHg). There was no benefit of valsartan p.m. versus a.m. on night-time BP, early morning BP and morning BP surge. Evening dosing also did not improve BP lowering in patients requiring add-on HCTZ or in nondippers at baseline. All treatments were well tolerated.

**CONCLUSION:** Once-daily dosing of valsartan 320 mg results in equally effective 24-h BP efficacy, regardless of dosing time.

**TRIAL REGISTRATION:** ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00241124.