---
reference_id: PMID:24055033
title: Mediator subunit MED1 is a T3-dependent and T3-independent coactivator on the thyrotropin β gene promoter.
authors:
- Matsui K
- Oda K
- Mizuta S
- Ishino R
- Urahama N
- Hasegawa N
- Roeder RG
- Ito M
journal: Biochemical and biophysical research communications
year: '2013'
doi: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.09.061
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:08:48+00:00'
---

# Mediator subunit MED1 is a T3-dependent and T3-independent coactivator on the thyrotropin β gene promoter.
**Authors:** Matsui K, Oda K, Mizuta S, Ishino R, Urahama N, Hasegawa N, Roeder RG, Ito M
**Journal:** Biochemical and biophysical research communications (2013)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.09.061](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.09.061)

## Content

The MED1 subunit of the Mediator transcriptional coregulator complex is a nuclear receptor-specific coactivator. A negative feedback mechanism of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH, or thyrotropin) expression in the thyrotroph in the presence of triiodothyronine (T3) is employed by liganded thyroid hormone receptor β (TRβ) on the TSHβ gene promoter, where conventional histone-modifying coactivators act as corepressors. We now provide evidence that MED1 is a ligand-dependent positive cofactor on this promoter. TSHβ gene transcription was attenuated in MED1 mutant mice in which the nuclear receptor-binding ability of MED1 was specifically disrupted. MED1 stimulated GATA2- and Pit1-mediated TSHβ gene promoter activity in a ligand-independent manner in cultured cells. MED1 also stimulated transcription from the TSHβ gene promoter in a T3-dependent manner. The transcription was further enhanced when the T3-dependent corepressors SRC1, SRC2, and HDAC2 were downregulated. Hence, MED1 is a T3-dependent and -independent coactivator on the TSHβ gene promoter.