---
reference_id: PMID:29556787
title: Dysregulation of the Renin-Angiotensin System and the Vasopressinergic System Interactions in Cardiovascular Disorders.
authors:
- Szczepanska-Sadowska E
- Czarzasta K
- Cudnoch-Jedrzejewska A
journal: Current hypertension reports
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1007/s11906-018-0823-9
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:05:02+00:00'
---

# Dysregulation of the Renin-Angiotensin System and the Vasopressinergic System Interactions in Cardiovascular Disorders.
**Authors:** Szczepanska-Sadowska E, Czarzasta K, Cudnoch-Jedrzejewska A
**Journal:** Current hypertension reports (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s11906-018-0823-9](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11906-018-0823-9)

## Content

**PURPOSE OF REVIEW:** In many instances, the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) and the vasopressinergic system (VPS) are jointly activated by the same stimuli and engaged in the regulation of the same processes.

**RECENT FINDINGS:** Angiotensin II (Ang II) and arginine vasopressin (AVP), which are the main active compounds of the RAS and the VPS, interact at several levels. Firstly, Ang II, acting on AT1 receptors (AT1R), plays a significant role in the release of AVP from vasopressinergic neurons and AVP, stimulating V1a receptors (V1aR), regulates the release of renin in the kidney. Secondly, Ang II and AVP, acting on AT1R and V1aR, respectively, exert vasoconstriction, increase cardiac contractility, stimulate the sympathoadrenal system, and elevate blood pressure. At the same time, they act antagonistically in the regulation of blood pressure by baroreflex. Thirdly, the cooperative action of Ang II acting on AT1R and AVP stimulating both V1aR and V2 receptors in the kidney is necessary for the appropriate regulation of renal blood flow and the efficient resorption of sodium and water. Furthermore, both peptides enhance the release of aldosterone and potentiate its action in the renal tubules. In this review, we (1) point attention to the role of the cooperative action of Ang II and AVP for the regulation of blood pressure and the water-electrolyte balance under physiological conditions, (2) present the subcellular mechanisms underlying interactions of these two peptides, and (3) provide evidence that dysregulation of the cooperative action of Ang II and AVP significantly contributes to the development of disturbances in the regulation of blood pressure and the water-electrolyte balance in cardiovascular diseases.