---
reference_id: PMID:32111748
title: Targeting BCL-2 as a Therapeutic Strategy for Primary p210BCR-ABL1-positive B-ALL Cells.
authors:
- Massimino M
- Tirrò E
- Stella S
- Pennisi MS
- Vitale SR
- Puma A
- Romano C
- DI Gregorio S
- Romeo MA
- DI Raimondo F
- Manzella L
journal: "In vivo (Athens, Greece)"
year: '2020'
doi: 10.21873/invivo.11802
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:15:01+00:00'
---

# Targeting BCL-2 as a Therapeutic Strategy for Primary p210BCR-ABL1-positive B-ALL Cells.
**Authors:** Massimino M, Tirrò E, Stella S, Pennisi MS, Vitale SR, Puma A, Romano C, DI Gregorio S, Romeo MA, DI Raimondo F, Manzella L
**Journal:** In vivo (Athens, Greece) (2020)
**DOI:** [10.21873/invivo.11802](https://doi.org/10.21873/invivo.11802)

## Content

**BACKGROUND/AIM:** Philadelphia-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ B-ALL) is caused by the malignant transformation of lymphoid cells induced by BCR-ABL1 constitutive catalytic activity. BCR-ABL1 tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are effective against chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) cells, inducing durable hematological, cytogenetic and molecular responses. However, in Ph+ B-ALL - as in CML progressing to blast crisis - TKIs fail to maintain disease remission. We, therefore, wanted to investigate if dual targeting of BCL-2 and BCR-ABL1 would be more effective in killing Ph+ B-ALL cells.

**MATERIALS AND METHODS:** p210-B-ALL CD34-positive cells were used to evaluate the BCR-ABL expression and pharmacological targeting of BCL-2, by venetoclax, alone or in combination with BCR-ABL1 inhibition.

**RESULTS:** We demonstrated the cytotoxic effect of BCL-2 inhibition and that dual targeting of BCL-2 and BCR-ABL1 with venetoclax and nilotinib further increases this cytotoxicity.

**CONCLUSION:** BCL-2 is a key survival factor for primary Ph+ B-ALL cells and its inhibition - alone or in combination with a BCR-ABL1 TKI - should be further investigated as a potential therapeutic strategy for these patients.