---
reference_id: PMID:33077341
title: Ropeginterferon Alfa-2b administered every two weeks for patients with genotype 2 chronic hepatitis C.
authors:
- Hsu SJ
- Yu ML
- Su CW
- Peng CY
- Chien RN
- Lin HH
- Lo GH
- Su WW
- Kuo HT
- Hsu CW
- Yang SS
- Yang SS
- Tseng KC
- Qin A
- Huang YW
- Chuang WL
journal: "Journal of the Formosan Medical Association = Taiwan yi zhi"
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1016/j.jfma.2020.09.018
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:48:16+00:00'
---

# Ropeginterferon Alfa-2b administered every two weeks for patients with genotype 2 chronic hepatitis C.
**Authors:** Hsu SJ, Yu ML, Su CW, Peng CY, Chien RN, Lin HH, Lo GH, Su WW, Kuo HT, Hsu CW, Yang SS, Yang SS, Tseng KC, Qin A, Huang YW, Chuang WL
**Journal:** Journal of the Formosan Medical Association = Taiwan yi zhi (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jfma.2020.09.018](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfma.2020.09.018)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Ropeginterferon alfa-2b is a novel mono-pegylated interferon that has only one major form as opposed to the 8 to 14 isomers of other on-market pegylated interferon products, allowing every-two-week injection with high tolerability. It received European Medicines Agency marketing authorization in 2019 and Taiwan Biologics License Applications Approval in 2020 for the treatment of polycythemia vera. This study aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Ropeginterferon alfa-2b plus ribavirin in genotype 2 chronic hepatitis C (CHC) patients.

**METHODS:** Eighty-six treatment naive patients with genotype 2 CHC were randomized to weekly peginterferon alfa-2a (Peg-IFN-α2a) at 180 μg (n = 22), or every-two-week Ropeginterferon alfa-2b at 270 μg (n = 23), 360 μg (n = 21), 450 μg (n = 20), plus daily oral ribavirin 1000 mg (≤75 kg) or 1200 mg (>75 kg). Patients with rapid virologic response received 16-week regimen while those without RVR received 24-week regimen. The primary endpoint was sustained virologic response at 24 weeks post-treatment (SVR24).

**RESULTS:** SVR24 was achieved by 95.5%, 78.3%, 85.7%, and 60% of subjects in Peg-IFN-α2a 180 μg, Ropeginterferon alfa-2b 270 μg, 360 μg, and 450 μg groups, respectively. The safety profile was similar across 4 groups. The incidence rate of adverse event during the treatment period was 0.407, 0.252, 0.395, and 0.347 per patient-week, respectively.

**CONCLUSION:** Ropeginterferon alfa-2b, although at only half the number of injections, is as safe and effective as Peg-IFN-α2a for genotype 2 CHC. A phase 3 study to confirm safety and efficacy of Ropeginterferon alfa-2b in genotype 2 CHC is ongoing.