---
reference_id: PMID:23619715
title: The cytotoxic effects of certolizumab pegol and golimumab mediated by transmembrane tumor necrosis factor α.
authors:
- Ueda N
- Tsukamoto H
- Mitoma H
- Ayano M
- Tanaka A
- Ohta S
- Inoue Y
- Arinobu Y
- Niiro H
- Akashi K
- Horiuchi T
journal: Inflammatory bowel diseases
year: '2013'
doi: 10.1097/MIB.0b013e318280b169
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:00:46+00:00'
---

# The cytotoxic effects of certolizumab pegol and golimumab mediated by transmembrane tumor necrosis factor α.
**Authors:** Ueda N, Tsukamoto H, Mitoma H, Ayano M, Tanaka A, Ohta S, Inoue Y, Arinobu Y, Niiro H, Akashi K, Horiuchi T
**Journal:** Inflammatory bowel diseases (2013)
**DOI:** [10.1097/MIB.0b013e318280b169](https://doi.org/10.1097/MIB.0b013e318280b169)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Anti-tumor necrosis factor α (anti-TNF-α) agents have been successfully applied for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, and other chronic inflammatory diseases. Not only the neutralization of soluble TNF-α but also the effect on transmembrane TNF-α is important mechanisms of action of anti-TNF-α agents. This study investigated the cytotoxic effects of new anti-TNF-α agents, certolizumab pegol and golimumab, which are mediated by transmembrane TNF-α.

**METHODS:** Transmembrane TNF-α-expressing Jurkat T cells that did not express TNF receptors were used. The binding ability of each anti-TNF-α agent to transmembrane TNF-α, antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity, complement-dependent cytotoxicity, and the apoptotic effect were examined.

**RESULTS:** Certolizumab pegol and golimumab bound to transmembrane TNF-α. Golimumab induced antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity and complement-dependent cytotoxicity, which was comparable to infliximab and adalimumab. However, certolizumab pegol did not induce antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity or complement-dependent cytotoxicity. Certolizumab pegol directly induced nonapoptotic cell death in transmembrane TNF-α-expressing cells. Golimumab induced a weaker apoptotic effect than infliximab and adalimumab.

**CONCLUSIONS:** The cytotoxic effects of anti-TNF-α agents on TNF-α-expressing cells are considered to be associated with the clinical effect of these agents on granulomatous diseases. The direct cytotoxic effect of certolizumab pegol on TNF-α-producing cells may contribute to its clinical efficacy in Crohn's disease. Golimumab may be less effective for granulomatous diseases.