---
reference_id: PMID:22571761
title: Mycophenolic acid counteracts B cell proliferation and plasmablast formation in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.
authors:
- Eickenberg S
- Mickholz E
- Jung E
- Nofer JR
- Pavenstadt HJ
- Jacobi AM
journal: "Arthritis research & therapy"
year: '2012'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:59:20+00:00'
---

# Mycophenolic acid counteracts B cell proliferation and plasmablast formation in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.
**Authors:** Eickenberg S, Mickholz E, Jung E, Nofer JR, Pavenstadt HJ, Jacobi AM
**Journal:** Arthritis research & therapy (2012)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** Clinical trials revealed a high efficacy of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF)in inducing and maintaining remission in patients with class III-V-lupus nephritis. Also extrarenal manifestations respond to MMF treatment. However, few attempts have been undertaken to delineate its mechanism of action in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) a disease characterized by enhanced B cell activation.

**METHODS:** Clinical and paraclinical parameters of 107 patients with SLE were recorded consecutively and analyzed retrospectively. Patients were divided into treatment groups (MMF: n=39, azathioprine (AZA) n=30 and controls without immunosuppressive therapy n=38). To further delineate the effect of mycophenolic acid (MPA) on naive and memory B cells in vitro assays were performed.

**RESULTS:** Although patients taking AZA flared more frequently than patients on MMF or controls, the analysis of clinical parameters did not reveal significant differences.However, profound differences in paraclinical parameters were found. B cell frequencies and numbers were significantly higher in patients taking MMF compared to those on AZA but lower numbers and frequencies of plasmablasts were detected compared to AZA-treated patients or controls. Notably, MMF treatment was associated with a significantly higher frequency and number of transitional B cells as well as naive B cells compared to AZA treatment. Differences in T cell subsets were not significant. MPA abrogated in vitro proliferation of purified B cells completely but had only moderate impact on B cell survival.

**CONCLUSIONS:** The thorough inhibition of B cell activation and plasma cell formation by MMF might explain the favorable outcomes of previous clinical trials in patients with SLE, since enhanced B cell proliferation is a hallmark of this disease.