---
reference_id: PMID:31988102
title: "Fourteen-Day Bactericidal Activity, Safety, and Pharmacokinetics of Linezolid in Adults with Drug-Sensitive Pulmonary Tuberculosis."
authors:
- Diacon AH
- De Jager VR
- Dawson R
- Narunsky K
- Vanker N
- Burger DA
- Everitt D
- Pappas F
- Nedelman J
- Mendel CM
journal: Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1128/AAC.02012-19
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:25:49+00:00'
---

# Fourteen-Day Bactericidal Activity, Safety, and Pharmacokinetics of Linezolid in Adults with Drug-Sensitive Pulmonary Tuberculosis.
**Authors:** Diacon AH, De Jager VR, Dawson R, Narunsky K, Vanker N, Burger DA, Everitt D, Pappas F, Nedelman J, Mendel CM
**Journal:** Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1128/AAC.02012-19](https://doi.org/10.1128/AAC.02012-19)

## Content

Linezolid is increasingly used for the treatment of tuberculosis resistant to first-line agents, but the most effective dosing strategy is yet unknown. From November 2014 to November 2016, we randomized 114 drug-sensitive treatment-naive pulmonary tuberculosis patients from Cape Town, South Africa, to one of six 14-day treatment arms containing linezolid at 300 mg once daily (QD), 300 mg twice daily (BD), 600 mg QD, 600 mg BD, 1,200 mg QD, 1,200 mg three times per week (TIW), or a combination of isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol. Sixteen-hour sputum samples were collected overnight, and bactericidal activity was characterized by the daily percentage change in time to positivity (TTP) and the daily rate of change in log10(CFU). We also assessed the safety and pharmacokinetics of the study treatments. We found that bactericidal activity increased with increasing doses of linezolid. Based on the daily percentage change in TTP, activity was highest for 1,200 mg QD (4.5%; 95% Bayesian confidence interval [BCI], 3.3 to 5.6), followed by 600 mg BD (4.1%; BCI, 2.5 to 5.7), 600 mg QD (4.1%; BCI, 2.9 to 5.3), 300 mg BD (3.3%; BCI, 1.9 to 4.7), 300 mg QD (2.3%; BCI, 1.1 to 3.5), and 1,200 mg TIW (2.2%; BCI, 1.1 to 3.3). Similar results were seen with bactericidal activity characterized by the daily rate of change in CFU count. Antimycobacterial activity correlated positively with plasma drug exposure and percentage time over MIC. There were no unexpected adverse events. All linezolid doses showed bactericidal activity. For the same total daily dose, once-daily dosing proved to be at least as effective as a divided twice-daily dose. An intermittent dosing regimen, with 1,200 mg given three times weekly, showed the least activity. (This study has been registered at ClinicalTrials.gov under identifier NCT02279875.).