---
reference_id: PMID:19406944
title: In vivo interaction of steroid receptor coactivator (SRC)-1 and the activation function-2 domain of the thyroid hormone receptor (TR) beta in TRbeta E457A knock-in and SRC-1 knockout mice.
authors:
- Alonso M
- Goodwin C
- Liao X
- Ortiga-Carvalho T
- Machado DS
- Wondisford FE
- Refetoff S
- Weiss RE
journal: Endocrinology
year: '2009'
doi: 10.1210/en.2009-0093
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:08:49+00:00'
---

# In vivo interaction of steroid receptor coactivator (SRC)-1 and the activation function-2 domain of the thyroid hormone receptor (TR) beta in TRbeta E457A knock-in and SRC-1 knockout mice.
**Authors:** Alonso M, Goodwin C, Liao X, Ortiga-Carvalho T, Machado DS, Wondisford FE, Refetoff S, Weiss RE
**Journal:** Endocrinology (2009)
**DOI:** [10.1210/en.2009-0093](https://doi.org/10.1210/en.2009-0093)

## Content

The activation function-2 (AF-2) domain of the thyroid hormone (TH) receptor (TR)-beta is a TH-dependent binding site for nuclear coactivators (NCoA), which modulate TH-dependent gene transcription. In contrast, the putative AF-1 domain is a TH-independent region interacting with NCoA. We determined the specificity of the AF-2 domain and NCoA interaction by evaluating thyroid function in mice with combined disruption of the AF-2 domain in TRbeta, due to a point mutation (E457A), and deletion of one of the NCoAs, steroid receptor coactivator (SRC)-1. The E457A mutation was chosen because it abolishes NCoA recruitment in vitro while preserving normal TH binding and corepressor interactions resulting in resistance to TH. At baseline, disruption of SRC-1 in the homozygous knock-in (TRbeta(E457A/E457A)) mice worsened the degree of resistance to TH, resulting in increased serum T(4) and TSH. During TH deprivation, disruption of AF-2 and SRC-1 resulted in a TSH rise 50% of what was seen when AF-2 alone was removed, suggesting that SRC-1 was interacting outside of the AF-2 domain. Therefore, 1) during TH deprivation, SRC-1 is necessary for activating the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis; 2) ligand-dependent repression of TSH requires an intact AF-2; and 3) SRC-1 may interact with the another region of the TRbeta or the TRalpha to regulate TH action in the pituitary. This report demonstrates the dual interaction of NCoA in vivo: the TH-independent up-regulation possibly through another domain and TH-dependent down-regulation through the AF-2 domain.