---
reference_id: PMID:21444704
title: "Inhibitory effect of a triterpenoid compound, with or without alpha interferon, on hepatitis C virus infection."
authors:
- Watanabe T
- Sakamoto N
- Nakagawa M
- Kakinuma S
- Itsui Y
- Nishimura-Sakurai Y
- Ueyama M
- Funaoka Y
- Kitazume A
- Nitta S
- Kiyohashi K
- Murakawa M
- Azuma S
- Tsuchiya K
- Oooka S
- Watanabe M
journal: Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy
year: '2011'
doi: 10.1128/AAC.01780-10
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:48:03+00:00'
---

# Inhibitory effect of a triterpenoid compound, with or without alpha interferon, on hepatitis C virus infection.
**Authors:** Watanabe T, Sakamoto N, Nakagawa M, Kakinuma S, Itsui Y, Nishimura-Sakurai Y, Ueyama M, Funaoka Y, Kitazume A, Nitta S, Kiyohashi K, Murakawa M, Azuma S, Tsuchiya K, Oooka S, Watanabe M
**Journal:** Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy (2011)
**DOI:** [10.1128/AAC.01780-10](https://doi.org/10.1128/AAC.01780-10)

## Content

A lack of patient response to alpha interferon (α-IFN) plus ribavirin (RBV) treatment is a major problem in eliminating hepatitis C virus (HCV). We screened chemical libraries for compounds that enhanced cellular responses to α-IFN and identified a triterpenoid, toosendanin (TSN). Here, we studied the effects and mechanisms of action of TSN on HCV replication and its effect on α-IFN signaling. We treated HCV genotype 1b replicon-expressing cells and HCV-J6/JFH-infected cells with TSN, with or without α-IFN, and the level of HCV replication was quantified. To study the effects of TSN on α-IFN signaling, we detected components of the interferon-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3), phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1), and STAT2 by Western blotting analysis; expression levels of mRNA of interferon regulatory factor 9 using real-time reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR); and interferon-stimulated response element reporter activity and measured the expression levels of interferon-inducible genes for 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase, MxA, protein kinase R, and p56 using real-time RT-PCR. TSN alone specifically inhibited expression of the HCV replicon (50% effective concentration = 20.6 nM, 50% cytotoxic concentration > 3 μM, selectivity index > 146). Pretreatment with TSN prior to α-IFN treatment was more effective in suppressing HCV replication than treatment with either drug alone. Although TSN alone did not activate the α-IFN pathway, it significantly enhanced the α-IFN-induced increase of phosphorylated STATs, interferon-stimulated response element activation, and interferon-stimulated gene expression. TSN significantly increased baseline expression of interferon regulatory factor 9, a component of interferon-stimulated gene factor 3. Antiviral effects of treatment with α-IFN can be enhanced by pretreatment with TSN. Its mechanisms of action could potentially be important to identify novel molecular targets to treat HCV infection.