---
reference_id: PMID:38925319
title: The impact of chrysanthemi indici flos-enriched flavonoid part on the model of hyperuricemia based on inhibiting synthesis and promoting excretion of uric acid.
authors:
- Jiao L
- Wang R
- Dong Y
- Su J
- Yu J
- Yan M
- Chen S
- Lv G
journal: Journal of ethnopharmacology
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.118488
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:34:24+00:00'
---

# The impact of chrysanthemi indici flos-enriched flavonoid part on the model of hyperuricemia based on inhibiting synthesis and promoting excretion of uric acid.
**Authors:** Jiao L, Wang R, Dong Y, Su J, Yu J, Yan M, Chen S, Lv G
**Journal:** Journal of ethnopharmacology (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jep.2024.118488](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jep.2024.118488)

## Content

**ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE:** In recent years, in addition to hypertension, hyperglycemia, and hyperlipidemia, the prevalence of hyperuricemia (HUA) has increased considerably. Being the fourth major health risk factor, HUA can affect the kidneys and cardiovascular system. Chrysanthemi Indici Flos is a flavonoid-containing traditional Chinese patent medicine that exhibits a uric acid (UA)-lowering effect. However, the mechanisms underlying Chrysanthemi Indici Flos-enriched flavonoid part (CYM.E) mediated alleviation of HUA remain unelucidated.

**AIM OF THE STUDY:** This study aimed to elucidate the efficacy of CYM.E in preventing and treating HUA and its specific effects on UA-related transport proteins, to explore possible mechanism.

**METHODS:** The buddleoside content in CYM.E was determined through high-performance liquid chromatography. HUA was induced in mice models using adenine and potassium oxonate. Subsequently, mice were administered 10 mg/kg allopurinol, and 30, 60, and 90 mg/kg CYM.E to evaluate the effects of CYM.E on the of HUA mice model. Herein, plasma uric acid (UA), creatinine (CR), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c), and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c) contents, along with serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activities were measured. Additionally, xanthine oxidase (XOD) and adenosine deaminase (ADA) activities in the liver were determined. The histomorphologies of the liver and kidney tissues were examined through hematoxylin and eosin staining. The messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of facilitated glucose transporter 9 (GLUT9), organic anion transporter (OAT)1, OAT3, and adenosine triphosphate binding cassette subfamily G2 (ABCG2) in the kidney was assessed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Furthermore, the expression of urate transporter 1 (URAT1), GLUT9, OAT1, and OAT3 in the kidney, OAT4, and ABCG2 proteins was determined by immunohistochemistry and western blotting.

**RESULTS:** The buddleoside content in CYM.E was approximately 32.77%. CYM.E improved body weight and autonomous activity in HUA mice. Additionally, it reduced plasma UA, BUN, and CR levels and serum ALT and AST activities, thus improving hepatic and renal functions, which further reduced the plasma UA content. CYM.E reduced histopathological damage to the kidneys. Furthermore, it lowered plasma TC, TG, and LDL-c levels, thereby improving lipid metabolism disorder. CYM.E administration inhibited hepatic XOD and ADA activities and reduced the mRNA expression of renal GLUT9. CYM.E inhibited the protein expression of renal URAT1, GLUT9, and OAT4, and increased the mRNA and protein expression of renal OAT1, OAT3, and ABCG2. Altogether, these results show that CYM.E could inhibit the production and promote reabsorption of UA and its excretion.