---
reference_id: PMID:11380629
title: "High-dose DDAVP intranasal spray (Stimate) for the prevention and treatment of bleeding in patients with mild haemophilia A, mild or moderate type 1 von Willebrand disease and symptomatic carriers of haemophilia A."
authors:
- Leissinger C
- Becton D
- Cornell C
- Cox Gill J
journal: "Haemophilia : the official journal of the World Federation of Hemophilia"
year: '2001'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:38:43+00:00'
---

# High-dose DDAVP intranasal spray (Stimate) for the prevention and treatment of bleeding in patients with mild haemophilia A, mild or moderate type 1 von Willebrand disease and symptomatic carriers of haemophilia A.
**Authors:** Leissinger C, Becton D, Cornell C, Cox Gill J
**Journal:** Haemophilia : the official journal of the World Federation of Hemophilia (2001)

## Content

An open-label multicentre trial was conducted to evaluate high-dose DDAVP (desmopressin acetate) intranasal spray (Stimate; 1.5 mg mL(-1)), for the control of bleeding in 333 patients with mild haemophilia A, mild or moderate type 1 von Willebrand disease, or symptomatic carriers of haemophilia A. Overall, 278 patients received 2170 doses of high-dose DDAVP intranasal spray (1.5 mg mL(-1)). Using study-defined guidelines, patients evaluated the efficacy of high-dose DDAVP intranasal spray (1.5 mg mL(-1)) as 'excellent' or 'good' in 743 (95%) of 784 bleeding episodes. It demonstrated 'excellent' results in 384 (93%) of 413 administrations for prophylaxis and in eight of eight uses prior to acute surgical or dental procedures. When used for the treatment of menorrhagia, the efficacy of high-dose DDAVP intranasal spray (1.5 mg mL(-1)) was rated as 'excellent' after 655 (92%) of 721 daily uses. Of 2170 doses of high-dose DDAVP intranasal spray (1.5 mg mL(-1)), 172 (8%) were associated with adverse events. A total of 272 adverse events were reported among 80 patients. Of these, 239 (88%) were mild or moderate in intensity and only one patient was removed from the study due to an adverse event. These results demonstrate the safety and efficacy of high-dose DDAVP intranasal spray (1.5 mg mL(-1)) for control of bleeding episodes in patients with mildly decreased levels of factor VIII, von Willebrand factor, or both.