---
reference_id: PMID:38942199
title: Intracellular effects of lithium in aging neurons.
authors:
- Godoy JA
- Mira RG
- Inestrosa NC
journal: Ageing research reviews
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102396
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:48:26+00:00'
---

# Intracellular effects of lithium in aging neurons.
**Authors:** Godoy JA, Mira RG, Inestrosa NC
**Journal:** Ageing research reviews (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.arr.2024.102396](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arr.2024.102396)

## Content

Lithium therapy received approval during the 1970s, and it has been used for its antidepressant, antimanic, and anti-suicidal effects for acute and long-term prophylaxis and treatment of bipolar disorder (BPD). These properties have been well established; however, the molecular and cellular mechanisms remain controversial. In the past few years, many studies demonstrated that at the cellular level, lithium acts as a regulator of neurogenesis, aging, and Ca2+ homeostasis. At the molecular level, lithium modulates aging by inhibiting glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β), and the phosphatidylinositol (PI) cycle; latter, lithium specifically inhibits inositol production, acting as a non-competitive inhibitor of inositol monophosphatase (IMPase). Mitochondria and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α) have been related to lithium activity, and its regulation is mediated by GSK-3β degradation and inhibition. Lithium also impacts Ca2+ homeostasis in the mitochondria modulating the function of the lithium-permeable mitochondrial Na+-Ca2+exchanger (NCLX), affecting Ca2+ efflux from the mitochondrial matrix to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). A close relationship between the protease Omi, GSK-3β, and PGC-1α has also been established. The purpose of this review is to summarize some of the intracellular mechanisms related to lithium activity and how, through them, neuronal aging could be controlled.