---
reference_id: PMID:11563881
title: "Infliximab downregulates interferon-gamma production in activated gut T-lymphocytes from patients with Crohn's disease."
authors:
- Agnholt J
- Kaltoft K
journal: Cytokine
year: '2001'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:55:38+00:00'
---

# Infliximab downregulates interferon-gamma production in activated gut T-lymphocytes from patients with Crohn's disease.
**Authors:** Agnholt J, Kaltoft K
**Journal:** Cytokine (2001)

## Content

The tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) neutralizing antibody, Infliximab (Ifx), reduces disease activity in patients with active steroid-dependent or fistulizing Crohn's disease. The mechanisms underlying the effects of Ifx are not fully understood. This study aims to investigate if and how Ifx regulates the interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production in human intestinal T-cells. Colonic T cells were expanded from 25 patients with Crohn's disease and ten healthy controls in an in vitro system, using medium supplemented with interleukin-2 and interleukin-4 but without exogenous antigen. The effect of Ifx was investigated in these in situ activated T cell cultures regarding the IFN-gamma production, proliferation, transmembrane TNF-alpha expression, cytolysis and apoptosis. T cell cultures from patients with Crohn's disease produced significantly higher levels of IFN-gamma (<0.001) and TNF-alpha (P=0.04) than T cell cultures from healthy controls. The production of IFN-gamma was downregulated by Ifx in early T cell cultures (P=0.002). Ifx bound to transmembrane TNF-alpha of activated T cells without inducing complement-mediated cytolysis, apoptosis and without affecting proliferation. Besides its known TNF-alpha neutralizing property, Ifx downregulates INF-gamma production in colonic T cell cultures. Colonic T cells express transmembrane TNF-alpha that binds Ifx. The data suggest that Ifx reduces the level of at least two pro-inflammatory cytokines leading to lower disease activity.