---
reference_id: PMID:11700036
title: Loss of irreversibility of granulocytic differentiation induced by dimethyl sulfoxide in HL-60 sublines with a homogeneously staining region.
authors:
- Kitajima K
- Haque M
- Nakamura H
- Hirano T
- Utiyama H
journal: Biochemical and biophysical research communications
year: '2001'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:48:25+00:00'
---

# Loss of irreversibility of granulocytic differentiation induced by dimethyl sulfoxide in HL-60 sublines with a homogeneously staining region.
**Authors:** Kitajima K, Haque M, Nakamura H, Hirano T, Utiyama H
**Journal:** Biochemical and biophysical research communications (2001)

## Content

The human HL-60 acute leukemia cell line harbors double minutes (dmins) during early passages. During its continuous culture for a long term, a single marker chromosome with a homogeneously staining region (HSR) replaces the dmins. The both structures harbor amplified c-MYC sequences. Here we ask how the cellular phenotype is altered by the c-MYC integration into a HSR. Treatment with dimethyl sulfoxide induces granulocytic differentiation in the both types of cells. In contrast to HL-60/dmin cells, however, no apoptosis followed differentiation and the differentiation phenotype was reverted upon withdrawal of the drug in HL-60/HSR cells. Terminal differentiation and loss of DNase I hypersensitivity sites at c-MYC P2 promoter appeared to be unlinked in the both types of cells. By comparison with HL-60/dmin cells, we conclude that the integration into a HSR of an extrachromosomal gene(s) but not c-MYC likely leads to the loss of irreversibility of the differentiation phenotype.