---
reference_id: PMID:40700327
title: The Role of Type I Interferons in Tuberculosis and in Tuberculosis-Risk-Associated Comorbidities.
authors:
- Mutua F
- Su RC
- Ball TB
- Kiazyk S
journal: Infectious disease reports
year: '2025'
doi: 10.3390/idr17040081
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:58:08+00:00'
---

# The Role of Type I Interferons in Tuberculosis and in Tuberculosis-Risk-Associated Comorbidities.
**Authors:** Mutua F, Su RC, Ball TB, Kiazyk S
**Journal:** Infectious disease reports (2025)
**DOI:** [10.3390/idr17040081](https://doi.org/10.3390/idr17040081)

## Content

The identification of a type I interferon-induced transcriptomic signature in active tuberculosis suggests a potential role for these interferons in the pathogenesis of tuberculosis. Comorbidities such as human immunodeficiency virus, diabetes, systemic lupus erythematosus, end-stage renal disease, and coronavirus disease are epidemiologically linked to an increased risk for reactivation of latent tuberculosis infection. Notably, type I interferons are also implicated in the pathogenesis of these conditions, with a recognizable type I interferon transcriptomic signature. The mechanisms by which type I interferons in tuberculosis-risk-associated comorbidities may drive the progression of tuberculosis or maintenance of latent infection however remain largely unknown. This review summarizes the existing literature on the increased association between type I interferons, focusing on interferon-α and -β, and the heightened risk of tuberculosis reactivation. It also underscores the similarities in the immunopathogenesis of these comorbidities. A better understanding of these mechanisms is essential to guide the development of host-directed interferon therapies and improving diagnostic biomarkers in M. tuberculosis infection.