---
reference_id: PMID:39151273
title: "Citrus-derived flavanones as neuraminidase inhibitors: In vitro and in silico study."
authors:
- Chen P
- Li C
- Chen L
- Li X
- Zhu S
journal: European journal of medicinal chemistry
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.116758
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:29:32+00:00'
---

# Citrus-derived flavanones as neuraminidase inhibitors: In vitro and in silico study.
**Authors:** Chen P, Li C, Chen L, Li X, Zhu S
**Journal:** European journal of medicinal chemistry (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.116758](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.116758)

## Content

Neuraminidase (NA) has been well-studied as a therapeutic target for Influenza. However, resistance to the influenza virus has been observed recently. Out of special interest in the utilization of dietary antivirals from citrus, in vitro inhibition activity against NA and in silico studies including molecular docking, molecular dynamic simulation, and a predictive ADMET study, were performed on five citrus-derived flavanones. Encouragingly, citrus-derived flavanones displayed comparable or even more potent in vitro inhibitory activity than oseltamivir carboxylate against NA. Orange peel extract exhibited higher activity than hesperidin. Among the tested compounds, neohesperidin, forming strong hydrogen-bonding interactions with key arginine residues, exhibited the most effective inhibitory activity against NAs from C. perfringens, consistent with the results of molecular dynamics simulations. Although the molecular docking results were inconsistent with the in vitro activity, the binding energy was identical against the wild-type and mutant, suggesting a lower likelihood of developing drug resistance. Moreover, predictive ADMET studies showed favorable pharmacokinetic properties for the tested compounds. Overall, citrus fruit peel emerges as a promising dietary supplement for prevention and treatment of influenza. These findings elucidate the impact of flavanones on NA activity, and the analysis of their binding modes provides valuable insights into the mechanism of NA inhibition.