---
reference_id: PMID:41389982
title: Bone marrow transplantation attenuates inflammation and improves glycemic control in type 2 non-obese diabetic Goto-Kakizaki rats.
authors:
- de Oliveira Borges JC
- Correa IS
- Gimenes GM
- de Araújo Ferreira L
- de Moura Silva MAR
- Pauferro JRB
- Lobato TB
- Alves ACDA
- Pereira ACG
- Souza KO
- Dos Santos CS
- Levada-Pires AC
- Pithon-Curi TC
- Marzuca-Nassr GN
- Hirabara SM
- Curi R
- Gorjão R
- Masi LN
journal: Molecular and cellular endocrinology
year: '2026'
doi: 10.1016/j.mce.2025.112716
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:37:47+00:00'
---

# Bone marrow transplantation attenuates inflammation and improves glycemic control in type 2 non-obese diabetic Goto-Kakizaki rats.
**Authors:** de Oliveira Borges JC, Correa IS, Gimenes GM, de Araújo Ferreira L, de Moura Silva MAR, Pauferro JRB, Lobato TB, Alves ACDA, Pereira ACG, Souza KO, Dos Santos CS, Levada-Pires AC, Pithon-Curi TC, Marzuca-Nassr GN, Hirabara SM, Curi R, Gorjão R, Masi LN
**Journal:** Molecular and cellular endocrinology (2026)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.mce.2025.112716](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mce.2025.112716)

## Content

Chronic hyperglycemia induces changes in the bone marrow (BM) microenvironment, favoring the expansion and differentiation of stem cells toward a pro-inflammatory profile. Since leukocyte recruitment plays a key role in chronic inflammation during the onset of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), the aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of bone marrow transplantation (BMT) on glycemic control and inflammatory markers in Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats transplanted after weaning. GK rats are spontaneously non-obese, T2DM animals. We performed BMT from normoglycemic Wistar (WT) rats to GK animals (aged 28 days), previously immunosuppressed with busulfan (20 mg/kg) and cyclophosphamide (150 mg/kg). The mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β and IL-7 was increased in the BM of weaned GK rats, and it was reduced in the BM mononuclear cells (BMMCs) 100 days after BMT. Hepatic cytokine levels were also evaluated by flow cytometry to calculate the Inflammatory Marker Index (based on IFN-γ, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-10), which was decreased in transplanted GK rats. Moreover, transplanted GK rats also showed reduced fasting glucose evaluated at 30, 60, and 90 days after transplantation. BMT also induced a significant decrease in plasma insulin and attenuated insulin resistance (HOMA-IR). Overall, BMT in just-weaned GK rats, characterized by an elevated inflammatory profile in the BM and liver, culminated in improvement of glycemic control compared with non-transplanted GK animals. In conclusion, modulation of the BM microenvironment emerges as a novel therapeutic avenue for managing non-obese T2DM and preventing its complications.