---
reference_id: PMID:33248325
title: The A150V Polymorphism of Genotype 3 Hepatitis C Virus Polymerase Inhibits Interferon Alfa by Suppressing Protein Kinase R Activation.
authors:
- Lee WJ
- Jones M
- Wing PAC
- Rajagopal S
- Foster GR
journal: Cellular and molecular gastroenterology and hepatology
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1016/j.jcmgh.2020.11.012
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:47:45+00:00'
---

# The A150V Polymorphism of Genotype 3 Hepatitis C Virus Polymerase Inhibits Interferon Alfa by Suppressing Protein Kinase R Activation.
**Authors:** Lee WJ, Jones M, Wing PAC, Rajagopal S, Foster GR
**Journal:** Cellular and molecular gastroenterology and hepatology (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jcmgh.2020.11.012](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcmgh.2020.11.012)

## Content

**BACKGROUND & AIMS:** Despite recent advances in antiviral therapy for hepatitis C virus (HCV), a proportion of patients with genotype 3 (G3) HCV infection do not respond to current all oral treatment regimens. Genomic analyses have identified key polymorphisms correlating with increased resistance to direct-acting antivirals. We previously reported that amino the acid polymorphism, A150V, in the polymerase (NS5B) of G3 HCV reduces response to sofosbuvir. We now demonstrate that this polymorphism alters the response to interferon alpha.

**METHODS:** Quantitative polymerase chain reaction, immunofluorescence, luciferase activity assay, immunoblotting, and flow cytometry were used to study the antiviral effect of interferon (IFN) on DBN G3 HCV-infected cells and G3 HCV replicons.

**RESULTS:** We show the presence of the A150V polymorphism markedly reduces the response to IFN alpha (IC50 of S52_WT = 1.162 IU/mL and IC50 of S52_A150V = 14.45 IU/mL, 12.4-fold difference). The induction of IFN-stimulated genes in A150V replicon cells is unaffected, but nuclear localization of active protein kinase R (PKR) is reduced. Blockade of PKR activity reduced the antiviral effect of IFN on wild-type replicons, whereas augmented PKR activation promoted the antiviral effect of IFN on A150V replicons. Furthermore, we show that impaired activation of PKR in A150V replicon cells diminishes cellular apoptosis.

**CONCLUSIONS:** These results demonstrate that polymorphisms reducing response rates to direct-acting antivirals may function beyond conferring drug resistance by modulating the intrinsic cellular antiviral response.