---
reference_id: PMID:39458543
title: Network Pharmacology Combined with Experimental Validation to Investigate the Mechanism of the Anti-Hyperuricemia Action of Portulaca oleracea Extract.
authors:
- Zhang Y
- Zhu S
- Gu Y
- Feng Y
- Gao B
journal: Nutrients
year: '2024'
doi: 10.3390/nu16203549
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:11:01+00:00'
---

# Network Pharmacology Combined with Experimental Validation to Investigate the Mechanism of the Anti-Hyperuricemia Action of Portulaca oleracea Extract.
**Authors:** Zhang Y, Zhu S, Gu Y, Feng Y, Gao B
**Journal:** Nutrients (2024)
**DOI:** [10.3390/nu16203549](https://doi.org/10.3390/nu16203549)

## Content

**BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES:** Hyperuricemia (HUA) is a common metabolic disease caused by purine metabolic disorders in the body. Portulaca oleracea L. (PO) is an edible wild vegetable.

**METHODS:** In this study, the regulatory effect of PO on HUA and its potential mechanism were initially elucidated through network pharmacology and experimental validation.

**RESULTS:** The results showed that PO from Sichuan province was superior to the plant collected from other habitats in inhibiting xanthine oxidase (XOD) activity. Berberine and stachydrine were isolated and identified from PO for the first time by UPLC-Q-Exactive Orbitrap MS. The potential molecular targets and related signaling pathways were predicted by network pharmacology and molecular docking techniques. Molecular docking showed that berberine had strong docking activity with XOD, and the results of in vitro experiments verified this prediction. Through experimental analysis of HUA mice, we found that PO can reduce the production of uric acid (UA) in the organism by inhibiting XOD activity. On the other hand, PO can reduce the body 's reabsorption of urate and aid in its excretion out of the body by inhibiting the urate transporter proteins (GLUT9, URAT1) and promoting the high expression of urate excretory protein (ABCG2). The results of H/E staining showed that, compared with the positive drug (allopurinol and benzbromarone) group, there was no obvious renal injury in the middle- and high-dose groups of PO extract.

**CONCLUSIONS:** In summary, our findings reveal the potential of wild plant PO as a functional food for the treatment of hyperuricemia.