---
reference_id: PMID:36743911
title: Cell-type specific distribution and activation of type I IFN pathway molecules at the placental maternal-fetal interface in response to COVID-19 infection.
authors:
- Wang Y
- Gu Y
- Lewis DF
- Gu X
- Brown K
- Lachute C
- Hankins M
- Scott RS
- Busada C
- Cooper DB
- McCathran CE
- Barrilleaux P
journal: Frontiers in endocrinology
year: '2022'
doi: 10.3389/fendo.2022.951388
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:58:07+00:00'
---

# Cell-type specific distribution and activation of type I IFN pathway molecules at the placental maternal-fetal interface in response to COVID-19 infection.
**Authors:** Wang Y, Gu Y, Lewis DF, Gu X, Brown K, Lachute C, Hankins M, Scott RS, Busada C, Cooper DB, McCathran CE, Barrilleaux P
**Journal:** Frontiers in endocrinology (2022)
**DOI:** [10.3389/fendo.2022.951388](https://doi.org/10.3389/fendo.2022.951388)

## Content

**BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE:** COVID-19 infection in pregnancy significantly increases risks of adverse pregnancy outcomes. However, little is known how the innate immunity at the placental maternal-fetal interface responds to COVID-19 infection. Type I IFN cytokines are recognized as a key component of the innate immune response against viral infection. In this study, we specifically evaluated expression of IFN antiviral signaling molecules in placentas from women infected with COVID-19 during pregnancy.

**METHODS:** Expression of IFN activation signaling pathway molecules, including cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), stimulator of interferon genes (STING), interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3), Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7), mitochondrial antiviral-signaling protein (MAVS), and IFNβ were determined in formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) placental tissue sections (villous and fetal membrane) by immunostaining. A total of 20 placentas were examined, 12 from COVID-19 patients and 8 from non-COVID-19 controls. Patient demographics, clinical data, and placental pathology report were acquired via EPIC medical record review.

**RESULTS:** Except BMI and placental weight, there was no statistical difference between COVID and non-COVID groups in maternal age, gestational age at delivery, gravity/parity, delivery mode, and newborn gender and weight. In COVID-exposed group, the main pathological characteristics in the placental disc are maternal and fetal vascular malperfusion and chronic inflammation. Compared to non-COVID controls, expression of IFN activation pathway molecules were all upregulated with distinct cell-type specific distribution in COVID-exposed placentas: STING in villous and decidual stromal cells; IRF3 in cytotrophoblasts (CTs) and extra-villous trophoblasts (EVTs); and TLR7 and MAVS in syncytiotrophoblasts (STs), CTs, and EVTs. Upregulation of STING, MAVS and TLR7 was also seen in fetal endothelial cells.

**CONCLUSIONS:** STING, IRF3, TLR7, and MAVS are key viral sensing molecules that regulate type I IFN production. Type I IFNs are potent antiviral cytokines to impair and eradicate viral replication in infected cells. The finding of cell-type specific distribution and activation of these innate antiviral molecules at the placental maternal-fetal interface provide plausible evidence that type I IFN pathway molecules may play critical roles against SARS-CoV-2 infection in the placenta. Our findings also suggest that placental maternal-fetal interface has a well-defined antiviral defense system to protect the developing fetus from SARS-CoV-2 infection.