---
reference_id: PMID:24573273
title: ASIC1a activation enhances inhibition in the basolateral amygdala and reduces anxiety.
authors:
- Pidoplichko VI
- Aroniadou-Anderjaska V
- Prager EM
- Figueiredo TH
- Almeida-Suhett CP
- Miller SL
- Braga MF
journal: "The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience"
year: '2014'
doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4009-13.2014
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:52:49+00:00'
---

# ASIC1a activation enhances inhibition in the basolateral amygdala and reduces anxiety.
**Authors:** Pidoplichko VI, Aroniadou-Anderjaska V, Prager EM, Figueiredo TH, Almeida-Suhett CP, Miller SL, Braga MF
**Journal:** The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience (2014)
**DOI:** [10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4009-13.2014](https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4009-13.2014)

## Content

The discovery that even small changes in extracellular acidity can alter the excitability of neuronal networks via activation of acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) could have therapeutic application in a host of neurological and psychiatric illnesses. Recent evidence suggests that activation of ASIC1a, a subtype of ASICs that is widely distributed in the brain, is necessary for the expression of fear and anxiety. Antagonists of ASIC1a, therefore, have been proposed as a potential treatment for anxiety. The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is central to fear generation, and anxiety disorders are characterized by BLA hyperexcitability. To better understand the role of ASIC1a in anxiety, we attempted to provide a direct assessment of whether ASIC1a activation increases BLA excitability. In rat BLA slices, activation of ASIC1a by low pH or ammonium elicited inward currents in both interneurons and principal neurons, and increased spontaneous IPSCs recorded from principal cells significantly more than spontaneous EPSCs. Epileptiform activity induced by high potassium and low magnesium was suppressed by ammonium. Antagonism of ASIC1a decreased spontaneous IPSCs more than EPSCs, and increased the excitability of the BLA network, as reflected by the pronounced increase of evoked field potentials, suggesting that ASIC1a channels are active in the basal state. In vivo activation or blockade of ASIC1a in the BLA suppressed or increased, respectively, anxiety-like behavior. Thus, in the rat BLA, ASIC1a has an inhibitory and anxiolytic function. The discovery of positive ASIC1a modulators may hold promise for the treatment of anxiety disorders.