---
reference_id: PMID:29490676
title: "Pharmacological characterisation of CR6086, a potent prostaglandin E2 receptor 4 antagonist, as a new potential disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug."
authors:
- Caselli G
- Bonazzi A
- Lanza M
- Ferrari F
- Maggioni D
- Ferioli C
- Giambelli R
- Comi E
- Zerbi S
- Perrella M
- Letari O
- Di Luccio E
- Colovic M
- Persiani S
- Zanelli T
- Mennuni L
- Piepoli T
- Rovati LC
journal: "Arthritis research & therapy"
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1186/s13075-018-1537-8
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:54:04+00:00'
---

# Pharmacological characterisation of CR6086, a potent prostaglandin E2 receptor 4 antagonist, as a new potential disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug.
**Authors:** Caselli G, Bonazzi A, Lanza M, Ferrari F, Maggioni D, Ferioli C, Giambelli R, Comi E, Zerbi S, Perrella M, Letari O, Di Luccio E, Colovic M, Persiani S, Zanelli T, Mennuni L, Piepoli T, Rovati LC
**Journal:** Arthritis research & therapy (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1186/s13075-018-1537-8](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13075-018-1537-8)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) acts via its EP4 receptor as a cytokine amplifier (e.g., interleukin [IL]-6) and induces the differentiation and expansion of inflammatory T-helper (Th) lymphocytes. These mechanisms play a key role in the onset and progression of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We present the pharmacological characterisation of CR6086, a novel EP4 receptor antagonist, and provide evidence for its potential as a disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD).

**METHODS:** CR6086 affinity and pharmacodynamics were studied in EP4-expressing HEK293 cells by radioligand binding and cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) production, respectively. In immune cells, IL-6 and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression were analysed by RT-PCR, and IL-23 and IL-17 release were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) models, rats or mice were immunised with bovine collagen type II. Drugs were administered orally (etanercept and methotrexate intraperitoneally) starting at disease onset. Arthritis progression was evaluated by oedema, clinical score and histopathology. Anti-collagen II immunoglobulin G antibodies were measured by ELISA.

**RESULTS:** CR6086 showed selectivity and high affinity for the human EP4 receptor (Ki = 16.6 nM) and functioned as a pure antagonist (half-maximal inhibitory concentration, 22 nM) on PGE2-stimulated cAMP production. In models of human immune cells in culture, CR6086 reduced key cytokine players of RA (IL-6 and VEGF expression in macrophages, IL-23 release from dendritic cells, IL-17 release from Th17 cells). In the CIA model of RA in rats and mice, CR6086 significantly improved all features of arthritis: severity, histology, inflammation and pain. In rats, CR6086 was better than the selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor rofecoxib and at least as effective as the Janus kinase inhibitor tofacitinib. In mice, CR6086 and the biologic DMARD etanercept were highly effective, whereas the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug naproxen was ineffective. Importantly, in a study of CR6086/methotrexate, combined treatment greatly improved the effect of a fully immunosuppressive dose of methotrexate.

**CONCLUSIONS:** CR6086 is a novel, potent EP4 antagonist showing favourable immunomodulatory properties, striking DMARD effects in rodents, and anti-inflammatory activity targeted to immune-mediated inflammatory diseases and distinct from the general effects of cyclooxygenase inhibitors. These results support the clinical development of CR6086, both as a stand-alone DMARD and as a combination therapy with methotrexate. The proof-of-concept trial in patients with RA is ongoing.