---
reference_id: PMID:33872687
title: Collapsing Glomerulopathy as a Complication of Type I Interferon-Mediated Glomerulopathy in a Patient With RNASEH2B-Related Aicardi-Goutières Syndrome.
authors:
- Fenaroli P
- Rossi GM
- Angelotti ML
- Antonelli G
- Volpi S
- Grossi A
- Delsante M
- Lodi L
- Landini S
- Romagnani P
- Vaglio A
journal: "American journal of kidney diseases : the official journal of the National Kidney Foundation"
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2021.02.330
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:58:20+00:00'
---

# Collapsing Glomerulopathy as a Complication of Type I Interferon-Mediated Glomerulopathy in a Patient With RNASEH2B-Related Aicardi-Goutières Syndrome.
**Authors:** Fenaroli P, Rossi GM, Angelotti ML, Antonelli G, Volpi S, Grossi A, Delsante M, Lodi L, Landini S, Romagnani P, Vaglio A
**Journal:** American journal of kidney diseases : the official journal of the National Kidney Foundation (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1053/j.ajkd.2021.02.330](https://doi.org/10.1053/j.ajkd.2021.02.330)

## Content

Aicardi-Goutières syndrome (AGS) is a well-characterized monogenic type I interferonopathy presenting with prominent neurologic manifestations. Among extraneurologic features, renal involvement has been described in only 1 patient with an IFIH1 mutation in whom membranous nephropathy developed. The pathogenic role of augmented interferon (IFN) signaling in tissues other than the central nervous system remains to be elucidated. We report a case of collapsing glomerulopathy in a 15-year-old girl affected by AGS with RNASEH2B mutation (an alanine-to-threonine change at amino acid 177), which led to kidney failure. The patient had no lupus-like features and lacked the APOL1 G1 and G2 risk alleles. Kidney biopsy showed findings consistent with collapsing glomerulopathy. MxA, a protein involved in antiviral immunity and induced by type I IFNs, was selectively expressed in CD133-positive parietal epithelial cells (PECs) but not in podocytes that stained for synaptopodin or in other glomerular cells. MxA also colocalized within pseudocrescents with CD44, a marker of PEC activation involved in cellular proliferation, differentiation, and migration and in glomerular scarring. Our findings suggest that collapsing glomerulopathy can be a complication of the type I interferonopathy AGS and that a constitutively enhanced type I IFN response in CD133-positive PECs can drive collapsing glomerulopathy.