---
reference_id: PMID:32474260
title: GABAA Receptor Subtypes and the Reinforcing Effects of Benzodiazepines in Remifentanil-Experienced Rhesus Monkeys.
authors:
- Berro LF
- Rowlett JK
journal: Drug and alcohol dependence
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2020.108076
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:52:17+00:00'
---

# GABAA Receptor Subtypes and the Reinforcing Effects of Benzodiazepines in Remifentanil-Experienced Rhesus Monkeys.
**Authors:** Berro LF, Rowlett JK
**Journal:** Drug and alcohol dependence (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2020.108076](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2020.108076)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Opioid-use disorder is associated with a high degree of co-abuse with benzodiazepines. While the mechanisms underlying the co-abuse of opioids and benzodiazepines remain unknown, α1 subunit-containing GABAA receptors may play a critical role in the reinforcing effects of benzodiazepine-type compounds, depending on whether the monkeys have a history of benzodiazepine or stimulant self-administration. The present study extended our prior research by comparing the reinforcing effects of a compound lacking activity at α1 subunit-containing GABAA receptors with the reinforcing effects of non-selective GABAA receptor positive allosteric modulators in monkeys with a history of opioid self-administration.

**METHODS:** The reinforcing effects of L-838,417 (partial intrinsic efficacy at α2, α3, and α5 subunit-containing GABAA receptors, but no efficacy at α1 subunit-containing GABAA receptors, i.e., "α1-sparing compound") were compared with those of the non-selective GABAA receptor partial modulator MRK-696, and non-selective GABAA receptor full modulators, triazolam and lorazepam, in rhesus monkeys (n = 3) experienced in remifentanil self-administration under a progressive-ratio schedule of intravenous drug injection.

**RESULTS:** Neither the partial modulator nor the α1-sparing compound were self-administered above vehicle levels. The full modulators triazolam and lorazepam were self-administered significantly above vehicle levels, albeit at lower levels than remifentanil.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Our findings suggest that relatively high efficacy at one or more GABAA receptor subtypes is required for a compound to have reinforcing effects in monkeys with a history of remifentanil self-administration, in contrast to monkeys with benzodiazepine or stimulant self-administration histories.