---
reference_id: PMID:31269464
title: "Unveiling the molecular basis for pleiotropy in selected rif mutants of Escherichia coli: Possible role for Tyrosine in the Rif binding pocket and fast movement of RNA polymerase."
authors:
- Karthik M
- Meenakshi S
- Munavar MH
journal: Gene
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2019.143951
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:22:57+00:00'
---

# Unveiling the molecular basis for pleiotropy in selected rif mutants of Escherichia coli: Possible role for Tyrosine in the Rif binding pocket and fast movement of RNA polymerase.
**Authors:** Karthik M, Meenakshi S, Munavar MH
**Journal:** Gene (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.gene.2019.143951](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gene.2019.143951)

## Content

Rifampicin (RIF) is still a first line of antibiotic in the treatment of bacterial diseases, in particular the Mycobacterial infections. The antimicrobial activity of RIF is attributed to its ability to inhibit transcription by binding to the β subunit of bacterial RNA polymerase (encoded by rpoB). Continued use of this drug resulted in the emergence of RIF resistant rpoB mutations in a high frequency that compels the use of RIF almost exclusively in drug combinations. As of date, a broad array of rif mutations have been isolated and characterized by different research groups. Studies on rpoB mutations strengthen the view that the β subunit of RNA polymerase (RNAP) is very crucial in modulating transcription thereby leading to differential gene expression. Very recently we have reported the transcriptome profile of rpoB12 mutant that provides molecular evidence that presence of rpoB12 mutation modulates the transcription of about 450 genes. Here we present a maiden report that rpoB mutations that substitute Tyr at the Rif binding pocket (RBP) of β subunit of RNA polymerase are able to suppress the over-production of colanic acid capsular polysaccharide (Ces phenotype) in Δlon mutant of Escherichia coli. Further analyses of the rif mutants involving their growth pattern on LB at higher temperature (42 °C), LB media without NaCl, survival in LB media with acidic pH (pH - 3) and motility revealed that only rpoB12 (His526Tyr) and rpoB137 (Ser522Tyr) affected all the above mentioned physiological parameters in addition to the elicitation of Ces phenotype. These two rif mutations confer fast movement to RNAP and they bear Tyr as the substituted amino acid in the RBP. This is perhaps the first study that brings out the possible role of Tyr in the RBP and its participation in the global gene expression. This study also envisages the point that amino acid residues that share the properties of Tyr in the RBP can be employed as a tool to bring out differential gene expression which would certainly have basic and applied values for the mankind.