---
reference_id: PMID:37528534
title: "Piperine improves levodopa availability in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease by suppressing gut bacterial tyrosine decarboxylase."
authors:
- Hu X
- Yu L
- Li Y
- Li X
- Zhao Y
- Xiong L
- Ai J
- Chen Q
- Wang X
- Chen X
- Ba Y
- Wang Y
- Wu X
journal: "CNS neuroscience & therapeutics"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1111/cns.14383
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:44:22+00:00'
---

# Piperine improves levodopa availability in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease by suppressing gut bacterial tyrosine decarboxylase.
**Authors:** Hu X, Yu L, Li Y, Li X, Zhao Y, Xiong L, Ai J, Chen Q, Wang X, Chen X, Ba Y, Wang Y, Wu X
**Journal:** CNS neuroscience & therapeutics (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1111/cns.14383](https://doi.org/10.1111/cns.14383)

## Content

**AIM:** Tyrosine decarboxylase (TDC) presented in the gut-associated strain Enterococcus faecalis can convert levodopa (L-dopa) into dopamine (DA), and its increased abundance would potentially minimize the availability and efficacy of L-dopa. However, the known human decarboxylase inhibitors are ineffective in this bacteria-mediated conversion. This study aims to investigate the inhibition of piperine (PIP) on L-dopa bacterial metabolism and evaluates the synergistic effect of PIP combined with L-dopa on Parkinson's disease (PD).

**METHODS:** Metagenomics sequencing was adopted to determine the regulation of PIP on rat intestinal microbiota structure, especially on the relative abundance of E. faecalis. Then, the inhibitory effects of PIP on L-dopa conversion and TDC expression of E. faecalis were tested in vitro. We examined the synergetic effect of the combination of L-dopa and PIP on 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats and tested the regulations of L-dopa bioavailability and brain DA level by pharmacokinetics study and MALDI-MS imaging. Finally, we evaluated the microbiota-dependent improvement effect of PIP on L-dopa availability using pseudo-germ-free and E. faecalis-transplanted rats.

**RESULTS:** We found that PIP combined with L-dopa could better ameliorate the move disorders of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats by remarkably improving L-dopa availability and brain DA level than L-dopa alone, which was associated with the effect of PIP on suppressing the bacterial decarboxylation of L-dopa via effectively downregulating the abnormal high abundances of E. faecalis and TDC in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats.

**CONCLUSION:** Oral administration of L-dopa combined with PIP can improve L-dopa availability and brain DA level in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats by suppressing intestinal bacterial TDC.