---
reference_id: PMID:39528058
title: "Rationale and design of the efficacy and safety of combination of cilostazol and gingko biloba extract EGb 761 in patients with acute non-cardioembolic ischemic stroke (RENEW): A pilot and feasibility randomized controlled trial."
authors:
- Ha SH
- Lee YB
- Kang HG
- Choi KH
- Kim BJ
- Woo HG
- Kwon HS
- Song TJ
- Kim BJ
journal: "Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association"
year: '2025'
doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2024.108105
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:09:57+00:00'
---

# Rationale and design of the efficacy and safety of combination of cilostazol and gingko biloba extract EGb 761 in patients with acute non-cardioembolic ischemic stroke (RENEW): A pilot and feasibility randomized controlled trial.
**Authors:** Ha SH, Lee YB, Kang HG, Choi KH, Kim BJ, Woo HG, Kwon HS, Song TJ, Kim BJ
**Journal:** Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association (2025)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2024.108105](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2024.108105)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel is the standard treatment for acute ischemic stroke (AIS). Cilostazol has emerged as a safe alternative with pleiotropic effects that prevent stroke without increasing the risk of bleeding and has been shown to reduce neurological deterioration (ND) in the acute phase. Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) has also been reported to improve neurological impairment following AIS. This trial aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the combination of cilostazol and EGb 761 in reducing early stroke recurrence and ND in patients with non-cardioembolic AIS.

**METHODS:** The RENEW trial is a prospective, randomized, active-controlled, double-blind, parallel, multicenter phase IV study. Five hundred patients with non-cardioembolic AIS presenting within 72 h of symptom onset will be randomized to receive either aspirin 100 mg and cilostazol 200 mg plus EGb 761 160 mg daily or aspirin 100 mg and clopidogrel 75 mg daily for 90 days. The primary outcomes included the combined ND rate during hospitalization and stroke recurrence within 90 days. Secondary outcomes included the rates of ND, recurrent AIS, hemorrhagic stroke, hemorrhagic transformation, functional outcomes (modified Rankin Scale 0-2), bleeding events, and changes in the dizziness handicap inventory scores.

**DISCUSSION:** The RENEW trial is expected to provide evidence for the safety and efficacy of combining aspirin, cilostazol, and EGb 761 as an alternative to standard therapy for the acute management of non-cardioembolic AIS.

**TRIAL REGISTRATION:** This trial was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT05445895).