---
reference_id: PMID:40192582
title: "Is Mycobacterial InhA a Suitable Target for Rational Drug Design?"
authors:
- Rizet J
- Maveyraud L
- Rengel D
- Guillet V
- Publicola G
- Rodriguez F
- Lherbet C
- Mourey L
journal: ChemMedChem
year: '2025'
doi: 10.1002/cmdc.202500079
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:25:25+00:00'
---

# Is Mycobacterial InhA a Suitable Target for Rational Drug Design?
**Authors:** Rizet J, Maveyraud L, Rengel D, Guillet V, Publicola G, Rodriguez F, Lherbet C, Mourey L
**Journal:** ChemMedChem (2025)
**DOI:** [10.1002/cmdc.202500079](https://doi.org/10.1002/cmdc.202500079)

## Content

InhA, an NAD-dependent enoyl-acyl carrier protein reductase, is involved in the biosynthesis of mycolic acids, specific lipids to mycobacteria. InhA is the target of isoniazid, a first-line antituberculosis drug used since the 1950s. Isoniazid is a prodrug that needs to be activated by the catalase-peroxidase KatG. Due to resistance problems, a substantial amount of work has been carried out to identify or design direct inhibitors of InhA, demonstrating that this enzyme is still considered a relevant target for the discovery of new antituberculosis drugs. Much of this work included the resolution of crystallographic structures. Indeed, over a hundred structures have been deposited in the Protein Data Bank for different forms of the enzyme (apo, holo, and complexes), demonstrating a real crystalline polymorphism. Taken together, these structures constitute a valuable dataset. However, the complete decoding of the enzyme's properties and its inhibition literally comes up against its molecular plasticity at the level of a motif essential to the definition of the active site: the substrate-binding loop. In this article, a detailed analysis of this structural dataset is proposed, describing in particular the different families of inhibitors and attempting to establish structural links of causality.