---
reference_id: PMID:37199311
title: Sympathetic Activation Promotes Cardiomyocyte Apoptosis in a Rabbit Susceptibility Model of Hyperthyroidism-Induced Atrial Fibrillation via the p38 MAPK Signaling Pathway.
authors:
- Zheng J
- Zhao S
- Yang Q
- Wei Y
- Li J
- Guo T
journal: Critical reviews in eukaryotic gene expression
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1615/CritRevEukaryotGeneExpr.2023046625
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:07:02+00:00'
---

# Sympathetic Activation Promotes Cardiomyocyte Apoptosis in a Rabbit Susceptibility Model of Hyperthyroidism-Induced Atrial Fibrillation via the p38 MAPK Signaling Pathway.
**Authors:** Zheng J, Zhao S, Yang Q, Wei Y, Li J, Guo T
**Journal:** Critical reviews in eukaryotic gene expression (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1615/CritRevEukaryotGeneExpr.2023046625](https://doi.org/10.1615/CritRevEukaryotGeneExpr.2023046625)

## Content

Excess thyroid hormone secretion can cause endocrine metabolic disorders, which can lead to cardiovascular diseases, including heart enlargement, atrial fibrillation (AF), and heart failure. The present study investigated the molecular mechanisms of hyperthyroidism-induced AF. A rabbit susceptibility model of hyperthyroidism-induced AF was constructed, and metoprolol treatment was administered. Norepinephrine levels were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry were used to detect the expression of markers for sympathetic remodeling (growth associated protein 43 and tyrosine hydroxylase in atrial myocardial tissues and stellate ganglia). Primary rabbit cardiomyocytes were cultured and identified by immunofluorescence staining, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling staining was used to measure cardiomyocyte apoptosis; western blot was used to detect the expression of apoptosis-related proteins, including Bax, Bcl-2, and cleaved caspase-3, as well as to measure the phosphorylation states of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway proteins. Metoprolol inhibited sympathetic activation and cardiomyocyte apoptosis in the rabbit model by inhibiting the p38 MAPK signaling pathway. Immunofluorescence staining results revealed that the rabbit cardiomyocytes were isolated successfully. Inhibition of p38 MAPK signaling alleviated norepinephrine-induced apoptosis in cardiomyocytes. Sympathetic activation promotes apoptosis in cardiomyocytes with hyperthyroidism-induced AF via the p38 MAPK signaling pathway. The results of the present study provide a novel theoretical basis for the potential clinical treatment of patients with hyperthyroidism and AF.