---
reference_id: PMID:22442150
title: "A fluorescent biosensor reveals conformational changes in human immunoglobulin E Fc: implications for mechanisms of receptor binding, inhibition, and allergen recognition."
authors:
- Hunt J
- Keeble AH
- Dale RE
- Corbett MK
- Beavil RL
- Levitt J
- Swann MJ
- Suhling K
- Ameer-Beg S
- Sutton BJ
- Beavil AJ
journal: The Journal of biological chemistry
year: '2012'
doi: 10.1074/jbc.M111.331967
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:59:38+00:00'
---

# A fluorescent biosensor reveals conformational changes in human immunoglobulin E Fc: implications for mechanisms of receptor binding, inhibition, and allergen recognition.
**Authors:** Hunt J, Keeble AH, Dale RE, Corbett MK, Beavil RL, Levitt J, Swann MJ, Suhling K, Ameer-Beg S, Sutton BJ, Beavil AJ
**Journal:** The Journal of biological chemistry (2012)
**DOI:** [10.1074/jbc.M111.331967](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M111.331967)

## Content

IgE binding to its high affinity receptor FcεRI on mast cells and basophils is a key step in the mechanism of allergic disease and a target for therapeutic intervention. Early indications that IgE adopts a bent structure in solution have been confirmed by recent x-ray crystallographic studies of IgEFc, which further showed that the bend, contrary to expectation, is enhanced in the crystal structure of the complex with receptor. To investigate the structure of IgEFc and its conformational changes that accompany receptor binding in solution, we created a Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) biosensor using biologically encoded fluorescent proteins fused to the N- and C-terminal IgEFc domains (Cε2 and Cε4, respectively) together with the theoretical basis for quantitating its behavior. This revealed not only that the IgEFc exists in a bent conformation in solution but also that the bend is indeed enhanced upon FcεRI binding. No change in the degree of bending was seen upon binding to the B cell receptor for IgE, CD23 (FcεRII), but in contrast, binding of the anti-IgE therapeutic antibody omalizumab decreases the extent of the bend, implying a conformational change that opposes FcεRI engagement. HomoFRET measurements further revealed that the (Cε2)(2) and (Cε4)(2) domain pairs behave as rigid units flanking the conformational change in the Cε3 domains. Finally, modeling of the accessible conformations of the two Fab arms in FcεRI-bound IgE revealed a mutual exclusion not seen in IgG and Fab orientations relative to the membrane that may predispose receptor-bound IgE to cross-linking by allergens.