---
reference_id: PMID:41129979
title: Rapid prediction the dual-enzyme activity of green Vc-ZnCu-MOFs by near-infrared spectroscopy and in vitro study of xanthine oxidase inhibition.
authors:
- Duan X
- Tian F
- Chu G
journal: Talanta
year: '2026'
doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2025.128976
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:35:05+00:00'
---

# Rapid prediction the dual-enzyme activity of green Vc-ZnCu-MOFs by near-infrared spectroscopy and in vitro study of xanthine oxidase inhibition.
**Authors:** Duan X, Tian F, Chu G
**Journal:** Talanta (2026)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.talanta.2025.128976](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.talanta.2025.128976)

## Content

Uric acid (UA, C5H4N4O3) is generated via the oxidation of hypoxanthine catalyzed by xanthine oxidase (XO). Elevated uric acid levels can contribute to the development of hyperuricemia and related disorders. This study developed a novel bimetallic metal-organic framework (Vc-ZnCu-MOFs) using ascorbic acid as an organic ligand. The material exhibited significant inhibition of XO, thereby reducing uric acid production. This inhibitory effect was attributed to its superoxide dismutase-like (SOD-like) and peroxidase-like (POD-like) activities, which were tuned by adjusting Cu2+ content during synthesis. Near-infrared (NIR) spectroscopy combined with partial least squares (PLS) regression enabled rapid prediction of dual-enzyme activities. After preprocessing with the 2nd derivative and CARS, the PLS models showed strong predictive accuracy, with RMSECV values of 0.003 U/mg and 0.004 U/mg, correlation coefficients (R) of 0.904 and 0.905, and RPD values of 2.60 and 2.99. Vc-ZnCu0.4-MOFs exhibited potent XO inhibition (IC50 = 18.03 μg/mL), comparable to allopurinol (74.57 μmol/L). The mechanism studies revealed that both the dual-enzyme activities and the nanostructure are critical to XO inhibition. This not only broadens the thinking in the field of nanomaterials on inhibiting XO to treat hyperuricemia, but also provides new ideas for the application of Vc-ZnCu0.4-MOFs as a green and economical dual-enzyme activity mimicase in other fields. This is also a further innovative application of near-infrared spectroscopy analysis technology in the field of simulated enzymology.