---
reference_id: PMID:39234901
title: Diuretic and Anti-hyperuricemic Effects of Geranyl Acetate in Rats.
authors:
- Shah SN
- Younis W
- Junior AG
- Manzoor W
- Malik MNH
- Mushtaq MN
- Munir MU
- Bashir A
- Bibi S
- Talha M
- Dos Reis Livero FA
journal: Current medicinal chemistry
year: '2026'
doi: 10.2174/0109298673300632240823061848
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:34:22+00:00'
---

# Diuretic and Anti-hyperuricemic Effects of Geranyl Acetate in Rats.
**Authors:** Shah SN, Younis W, Junior AG, Manzoor W, Malik MNH, Mushtaq MN, Munir MU, Bashir A, Bibi S, Talha M, Dos Reis Livero FA
**Journal:** Current medicinal chemistry (2026)
**DOI:** [10.2174/0109298673300632240823061848](https://doi.org/10.2174/0109298673300632240823061848)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Geranyl acetate, a compound found in plant oils, has been studied for its potential effects on renal and cardiovascular ailments.

**OBJECTIVE:** This study aimed to investigate the diuretic and anti-hyperuricemic properties of geranyl acetate in male Wistar rats using a hyperuricemia-induced rat model.

**METHODS:** Molecular docking studies were conducted to assess geranyl acetate's interactions with various targets. In vitro studies were performed to evaluate its scavenging ability and inhibition of xanthine oxidase, urease, and acetylcholinesterase. Subsequently, we administered different doses of geranyl acetate (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg) and a reference drug (furosemide) to the rats to assess their acute and repeated dose diuretic effects over seven days. To understand the diuretic mechanism, we used inhibitors, such as LNAME, indomethacin, and atropine, prior to administering geranyl acetate. We also tested the anti-hyperuricemic potential of geranyl acetate on hyperuricemic rats.

**RESULTS:** Molecular docking suggested strong binding between geranyl acetate and nitric oxide synthase. In vitro studies showed significant free radical scavenging activity and and inhibition of acetylcholinesterase, xanthine oxidase, and urease. The 100 mg/kg dose exhibited the most promising diuretic effects, with nitric oxide appearing to influence its action. Uric acid excretion increased at this dose, resembling allopurinol effects.

**CONCLUSION:** Geranyl acetate has demonstrated significant diuretic and anti-hyperuricemic effects, likely influenced by nitric oxide release and inhibition of enzymes, like xanthine oxidase and urease. The findings have suggested potential benefits for individuals with kidney ailments, hypertension, and gout.