---
reference_id: PMID:36720377
title: Influence of body weight and body mass index on the chronic pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic responses to clinically available doses of ticagrelor in patients with chronic coronary syndromes.
authors:
- Parker WAE
- Angiolillo DJ
- Rollini F
- Franchi F
- Bonaca MP
- Bhatt DL
- Steg PG
- Orme RC
- Thomas MR
- Judge HM
- Sabatine MS
- Storey RF
journal: Vascular pharmacology
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1016/j.vph.2023.107145
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:09:08+00:00'
---

# Influence of body weight and body mass index on the chronic pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic responses to clinically available doses of ticagrelor in patients with chronic coronary syndromes.
**Authors:** Parker WAE, Angiolillo DJ, Rollini F, Franchi F, Bonaca MP, Bhatt DL, Steg PG, Orme RC, Thomas MR, Judge HM, Sabatine MS, Storey RF
**Journal:** Vascular pharmacology (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.vph.2023.107145](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vph.2023.107145)

## Content

Ticagrelor has multiple indications, including for some patients with chronic coronary syndromes (CCS) at high risk of ischaemic events. Body mass can potentially affect pharmacodynamics (PD) and pharmacokinetics (PK). We investigated the influence of body mass (range 53-172 kg, 20.8-46.9 kg/m2) on PD/PK in 221 CCS patients receiving ticagrelor 60 mg or 90 mg twice-daily (BD) during two randomised-controlled trials. Correlations between body weight (BW) or body mass index (BMI) and PD/PK measurements obtained during maintenance treatment at trough ('pre-dose') and peak effect ('post-dose') were assessed. BW and BMI correlated with P2Y12 reactivity units at pre-dose (e.g. BW:R = 0.26, p = 0.008) but not post-dose timepoints. BW affected ticagrelor active metabolite (TAM) levels (e.g. 60 mg BD, post-dose:R = -0.39, p < 0.0001) and there was evidence of an inverse power law relationship between BW and TAM-to-ticagrelor ratio. PK with ticagrelor 60 mg correlated significantly with BMI. BW and BMI did not affect the chance of high platelet reactivity, which remained very low across the whole cohort. There was no difference in PRU between the two doses of ticagrelor within each weight or BMI group. Body mass has modest effects on the PK/PD response to ticagrelor in patients with CCS but currently-used regimens appear adequate across the range of BW/BMI studied.