---
reference_id: PMID:10858362
title: Antiviral activities of oral 1-O-hexadecylpropanediol-3-phosphoacyclovir and acyclovir in woodchucks with chronic woodchuck hepatitis virus infection.
authors:
- Hostetler KY
- Beadle JR
- Hornbuckle WE
- Bellezza CA
- Tochkov IA
- Cote PJ
- Gerin JL
- Korba BE
- Tennant BC
journal: Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy
year: '2000'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:40:38+00:00'
---

# Antiviral activities of oral 1-O-hexadecylpropanediol-3-phosphoacyclovir and acyclovir in woodchucks with chronic woodchuck hepatitis virus infection.
**Authors:** Hostetler KY, Beadle JR, Hornbuckle WE, Bellezza CA, Tochkov IA, Cote PJ, Gerin JL, Korba BE, Tennant BC
**Journal:** Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy (2000)

## Content

Acyclovir triphosphate is a potent inhibitor of hepatitis B virus DNA polymerase, but acyclovir treatment provides no benefit in patients with hepatitis B virus infection. This is due in part to the fact that hepatitis B virus, unlike herpes simplex virus, does not code for a viral thymidine kinase which catalyzes the initial phosphorylation of acyclovir. We synthesized 1-O-octadecyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho (3-P)-acyclovir and found that it was highly active in reducing hepatitis B virus replication in 2.2. 15 cells, while acyclovir was inactive. The greater antiviral activity of 1-O-octadecyl-sn-glycero-3-P-acyclovir appeared to be due to liver cell metabolism of the compound to acyclovir monophosphate (K. Y. Hostetler et al., Biochem. Pharmacol. 53:1815-1822, 1997). However, a closely related compound without a hydroxyl group at the sn-2 position of glycerol, 1-O-hexadecylpropanediol-3-P-acyclovir, was more active and selective in 2.2.15 cells in vitro. In this study, we treated woodchucks chronically infected with woodchuck hepatitis virus with increasing oral doses of 1-O-hexadecylpropanediol-3-P-acyclovir and assessed the response to therapy versus acyclovir or a placebo. At a dosage of 10 mg/kg of body weight twice a day, the test compound significantly inhibited viral replication in vivo, as indicated by a 95% reduction in serum woodchuck hepatitis virus DNA levels and by a 54% reduction in levels of woodchuck hepatitis virus replicative intermediates in the liver. Higher doses were somewhat less effective. In contrast, 20 mg of acyclovir/kg twice daily, a 5. 3-fold-higher molar dosage, had no demonstrable activity against woodchuck hepatitis virus. Oral 1-O-hexadecylpropanediol-3-P-acyclovir appeared to be safe and effective in chronic woodchuck hepatitis virus infection.