---
reference_id: PMID:24531377
title: FoxA1 directs the lineage and immunosuppressive properties of a novel regulatory T cell population in EAE and MS.
authors:
- Liu Y
- Carlsson R
- Comabella M
- Wang J
- Kosicki M
- Carrion B
- Hasan M
- Wu X
- Montalban X
- Dziegiel MH
- Sellebjerg F
- Sørensen PS
- Helin K
- Issazadeh-Navikas S
journal: Nature medicine
year: '2014'
doi: 10.1038/nm.3485
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:42:10+00:00'
---

# FoxA1 directs the lineage and immunosuppressive properties of a novel regulatory T cell population in EAE and MS.
**Authors:** Liu Y, Carlsson R, Comabella M, Wang J, Kosicki M, Carrion B, Hasan M, Wu X, Montalban X, Dziegiel MH, Sellebjerg F, Sørensen PS, Helin K, Issazadeh-Navikas S
**Journal:** Nature medicine (2014)
**DOI:** [10.1038/nm.3485](https://doi.org/10.1038/nm.3485)

## Content

The defective generation or function of regulatory T (Treg) cells in autoimmune disease contributes to chronic inflammation and tissue injury. We report the identification of FoxA1 as a transcription factor in T cells that, after ectopic expression, confers suppressive properties in a newly identified Treg cell population, herein called FoxA1(+) Treg cells. FoxA1 bound to the Pdl1 promoter, inducing programmed cell death ligand 1 (Pd-l1) expression, which was essential for the FoxA1(+) Treg cells to kill activated T cells. FoxA1(+) Treg cells develop primarily in the central nervous system in response to autoimmune inflammation, have a distinct transcriptional profile and are CD4(+)FoxA1(+)CD47(+)CD69(+)PD-L1(hi)FoxP3(-). Adoptive transfer of stable FoxA1(+) Treg cells inhibited experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in a FoxA1-and Pd-l1-dependent manner. The development of FoxA1(+) Treg cells is induced by interferon-β (IFN-β) and requires T cell-intrinsic IFN-α/β receptor (Ifnar) signaling, as the frequency of FoxA1(+) Treg cells was reduced in Ifnb(-/-) and Ifnar(-/-) mice. In individuals with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, clinical response to treatment with IFN-β was associated with an increased frequency of suppressive FoxA1(+) Treg cells in the blood. These findings suggest that FoxA1 is a lineage-specification factor that is induced by IFN-β and supports the differentiation and suppressive function of FoxA1(+) Treg cells.