---
reference_id: PMID:30203386
title: Evaluation of Drug-Drug Interaction Potential between Baloxavir Marboxil and Oseltamivir in Healthy Subjects.
authors:
- Kawaguchi N
- Koshimichi H
- Ishibashi T
- Wajima T
journal: Clinical drug investigation
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1007/s40261-018-0697-2
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:29:33+00:00'
---

# Evaluation of Drug-Drug Interaction Potential between Baloxavir Marboxil and Oseltamivir in Healthy Subjects.
**Authors:** Kawaguchi N, Koshimichi H, Ishibashi T, Wajima T
**Journal:** Clinical drug investigation (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s40261-018-0697-2](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40261-018-0697-2)

## Content

**BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE:** Baloxavir marboxil is a prodrug that is metabolized to baloxavir acid, which suppresses viral replication by inhibiting cap-dependent endonuclease with a single oral administration. As the mode of action of baloxavir marboxil is different from that of neuraminidase inhibitors, such as oseltamivir, combination treatment with these drugs can be a treatment option, particularly for severe influenza infection. The aim of this study was to assess the drug-drug interaction between baloxavir marboxil and oseltamivir.

**METHODS:** Eighteen healthy adult subjects received three treatments in a crossover fashion: single administration of baloxavir marboxil 40 mg alone, repeated twice-daily administration of oseltamivir at 75 mg for 5 days, or single administration of baloxavir marboxil at 40 mg in combination with repeated twice-daily administration of oseltamivir at 75 mg for 5 days.

**RESULTS:** The ratios (90% confidence intervals) of maximum plasma concentration and area under the plasma concentration-time curve of baloxavir acid after co-administration compared to baloxavir marboxil alone were 1.03 (0.92-1.15) and 1.01 (0.96-1.06), respectively. The ratios (90% confidence intervals) of maximum plasma concentration and area under the plasma concentration-time curve of oseltamivir carboxylate, the active form of oseltamivir, after co-administration compared to oseltamivir alone were 0.96 (0.93-1.00) and 0.99 (0.96-1.01), respectively, at steady state on day 5. Treatment-emergent adverse events reported were mild and not considered to be related to the study drug.

**CONCLUSION:** The lack of a clinically meaningful drug-drug interaction between baloxavir marboxil and oseltamivir has been established.