---
reference_id: PMID:31091646
title: "SSRIs and SNRIs (SRI) in Pregnancy: Effects on the Course of Pregnancy and the Offspring: How Far Are We from Having All the Answers?"
authors:
- Ornoy A
- Koren G
journal: International journal of molecular sciences
year: '2019'
doi: 10.3390/ijms20102370
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:46:20+00:00'
---

# SSRIs and SNRIs (SRI) in Pregnancy: Effects on the Course of Pregnancy and the Offspring: How Far Are We from Having All the Answers?
**Authors:** Ornoy A, Koren G
**Journal:** International journal of molecular sciences (2019)
**DOI:** [10.3390/ijms20102370](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms20102370)

## Content

Serotonin has important roles in the development of the brain and other organs. Manipulations of synaptic serotonin by drugs such as serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRI) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRI) might alter their development and function. Of interest, most studies on the outcome of prenatal exposure to SRI in human have not found significant embryonic or fetal damage, except for a possible, slight increase in cardiac malformations. In up to a third of newborns exposed to SRI, exposure may induce transient neonatal behavioral changes (poor neonatal adaptation) and increased rate of persistent pulmonary hypertension. Prenatal SRI may also cause slight motor delay and language impairment but these are transient. The data on the possible association of prenatal SRIs with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are inconsistent, and seem to be related to pre-pregnancy treatment or to maternal depression. Prenatal SRIs also appear to affect the hypothalamic hypophyseal adrenal (HPA) axis inducing epigenetic changes, but the long-term consequences of these effects on humans are as yet unknown. SRIs are metabolized in the liver by several cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes. Faster metabolism of most SRIs in late pregnancy leads to lower maternal concentrations, and thus potentially to decreased efficacy which is more prominent in women that are rapid metabolizers. Studies suggest that the serotonin transporter SLC6A4 promoter is associated with adverse neonatal outcomes after SRI exposure. Since maternal depression may adversely affect the child's development, one has to consider the risk of SRI discontinuation on the fetus and the child. As with any drug treatment in pregnancy, the benefits to the mother should be considered versus the possible hazards to the developing embryo/fetus.