---
reference_id: PMID:28499269
title: "Identification of novel serotonin reuptake inhibitors targeting central and allosteric binding sites: A virtual screening and molecular dynamics simulations study."
authors:
- Erol I
- Aksoydan B
- Kantarcioglu I
- Salmas RE
- Durdagi S
journal: "Journal of molecular graphics & modelling"
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1016/j.jmgm.2017.02.001
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:46:23+00:00'
---

# Identification of novel serotonin reuptake inhibitors targeting central and allosteric binding sites: A virtual screening and molecular dynamics simulations study.
**Authors:** Erol I, Aksoydan B, Kantarcioglu I, Salmas RE, Durdagi S
**Journal:** Journal of molecular graphics & modelling (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jmgm.2017.02.001](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmgm.2017.02.001)

## Content

The serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5HT) transporter (SERT) is a member of neurotransmitter sodium symporter (NSS) family, which maintains neurotransmitter by reuptaking 5HT into synapses. Decrease in serotonin concentrations in synaptic clefts have been reported to cause psychological and neurological disorders. Therefore, inhibition of SERT is a potent strategy for the treatment of related diseases such as depression. In this study, approximately 260,000 small molecules from an available chemical database have been virtually screened both at central and allosteric binding sites of SERT to identify potent novel candidate SERT inhibitors. A set of docking algorithms were used to predict binding modes and energies of compounds. Screening analyses led three top-ranked hit compounds (160234, Otava ID: 7118020138; 159166, Otava ID: 7117171303; and 69419, Otava ID: 118671819) for central binding site (S1) and one compound (93507, Otava ID: 6248262) for allosteric binding site (S2). These promising compounds are then subjected to long multiple molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to elucidate their structural and dynamical profiles at the binding cavities of SERT. Higher predicted binding affinities of identified compounds were also confirmed with binding free energy calculations (MM/GBSA) in comparison with the reference central and allosteric binding site inhibitors, paroxetine (8PR) and escitalopram (68P), respectively. To the best of our knowledge, the present work is the first structure-based high throughput virtual screening study reported using recently revealed crystal structure of SERT for screening inhibitors from chemical databases on S1 and S2 binding sites. Small molecule library screening study yielded candidate compounds both at central and allosteric binding site of SERT, and further experimentation may pave the way for developing novel strong inhibitors.