---
reference_id: PMID:20459026
title: "[Establishment of a model for evaluating hypolipidemic effect in HepG2 cells]."
authors:
- Niu Y
- Lü N
- Li Y
- Zhao D
- Sun C
journal: "Wei sheng yan jiu = Journal of hygiene research"
year: '2010'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:03:01+00:00'
---

# [Establishment of a model for evaluating hypolipidemic effect in HepG2 cells].
**Authors:** Niu Y, Lü N, Li Y, Zhao D, Sun C
**Journal:** Wei sheng yan jiu = Journal of hygiene research (2010)

## Content

**OBJECTIVE:** To establish a model of evaluating hypolipidemic effect in vitro.

**METHODS:** Adding cholesterol to the culture medium for HepG2 cells to induce a hypercholesterolemia model. The content of cellular cholesterol and the expression of protein regulating cholesterol metabolism in HepG2 cells were determined. The validation of the model was identified by lovastatin, a widely used cholesterol-lowering drug. Free fatty acid was added to the culture medium for HepG2 cells to induce a hypertriglyceridemia model. The content of cellular triglyceride and the absorption rate of free fatty acid were determined. The validation of the model was identified by fenofibrate, a triglyceride-lowering drug.

**RESULTS:** Cellular cholesterol content was increased and the expression of HMG-CoA redutase, SREBP-2 and LDLR were decreased after adding cholesterol and 25-hydrocholesterol to the culture medium. Cellular cholesterol was decreased and the expression of SREBP-2 and LDLR were up-regulated by Lovastatin. The absorption of oleic acid in cells was up to 40% after adding oleic acid (50 micromol) to the culture medium for 6 h. The absorption of free fatty acid was increased but the content of cellular triglyceride was not increased in cells by Fenofibrate.

**CONCLUSION:** This model might be an effective method for screening and assessing functional factors for lowing plasma lipids.