---
reference_id: PMID:35798236
title: "Role of platelet in Parkinson's disease: Insights into pathophysiology & theranostic solutions."
authors:
- Beura SK
- Panigrahi AR
- Yadav P
- Singh SK
journal: Ageing research reviews
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2022.101681
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:09:55+00:00'
---

# Role of platelet in Parkinson's disease: Insights into pathophysiology & theranostic solutions.
**Authors:** Beura SK, Panigrahi AR, Yadav P, Singh SK
**Journal:** Ageing research reviews (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.arr.2022.101681](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arr.2022.101681)

## Content

Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second-most-common neurodegenerative disease characterized by motor and non-motor dysfunctions, which currently affects about 10 million people worldwide. Gradual death and progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the pars compacta region of substantia nigra result in striatal dopamine deficiency in PD. Specific mutation with further aggregation of α-synuclein in the intraneuronal inclusion bodies is considered the neuropathological hallmark of this disease. PD is often associated with various organelle dysfunctions inside a dopaminergic neuron, including mitochondrial damage, proteasomal impairment, and production of reactive oxygen species, thus causing subsequent neuronal death. Apart from several genetic and non-genetic risk factors, emerging research establishes an association between cardiovascular diseases, including coronary heart disease, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, and ischemic stroke with PD. The majority of these cardiovascular diseases have an origin from atherosclerosis, where endothelial dysfunction following thrombus formation is significantly regulated by blood platelet. This non-nucleated cell fragment expresses not only neuron-specific molecules and receptors but also several PD-specific biomarkers such as α-synuclein, parkin, PTEN-induced kinase-1, tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine transporter, thus making platelet a suitable peripheral model for PD. Besides its similarity with a dopaminergic neuron, platelet structural alterations, as well as functional abnormalities, are also evident in PD. However, the molecular mechanism behind platelet dysfunction is still elusive and quite controversial. This state-of-the-art review describes the detailed mechanism of platelet impairment in PD, addressing the novel platelet-associated therapeutic drug candidates for plausible PD management.