---
reference_id: PMID:23867504
title: Metastasis-associated PRL-3 induces EGFR activation and addiction in cancer cells.
authors:
- Al-Aidaroos AQ
- Yuen HF
- Guo K
- Zhang SD
- Chung TH
- Chng WJ
- Zeng Q
journal: The Journal of clinical investigation
year: '2013'
doi: 10.1172/JCI66824
corrections_in:
- "J Clin Invest. 2013 Oct 1;123(10):4540"
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:17:07+00:00'
---

# Metastasis-associated PRL-3 induces EGFR activation and addiction in cancer cells.
**Authors:** Al-Aidaroos AQ, Yuen HF, Guo K, Zhang SD, Chung TH, Chng WJ, Zeng Q
**Journal:** The Journal of clinical investigation (2013)
**DOI:** [10.1172/JCI66824](https://doi.org/10.1172/JCI66824)

## Content

Metastasis-associated phosphatase of regenerating liver-3 (PRL-3) has pleiotropic effects in driving cancer progression, yet the signaling mechanisms of PRL-3 are still not fully understood. Here, we provide evidence for PRL-3-induced hyperactivation of EGFR and its downstream signaling cascades in multiple human cancer cell lines. Mechanistically, PRL-3-induced activation of EGFR was attributed primarily to transcriptional downregulation of protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B), an inhibitory phosphatase for EGFR. Functionally, PRL-3-induced hyperactivation of EGFR correlated with increased cell growth, promigratory characteristics, and tumorigenicity. Moreover, PRL-3 induced cellular addiction to EGFR signaling, as evidenced by the pronounced reversion of these oncogenic attributes upon EGFR-specific inhibition. Of clinical significance, we verified elevated PRL-3 expression as a predictive marker for favorable therapeutic response in a heterogeneous colorectal cancer (CRC) patient cohort treated with the clinically approved anti-EGFR antibody cetuximab. The identification of PRL-3-driven EGFR hyperactivation and consequential addiction to EGFR signaling opens new avenues for inhibiting PRL-3-driven cancer progression. We propose that elevated PRL-3 expression is an important clinical predictive biomarker for favorable anti-EGFR cancer therapy.