---
reference_id: PMID:15293079
title: "Lipid lowering therapy with fluvastatin and pravastatin in patients with HIV infection and antiretroviral therapy: comparison of efficacy and interaction with indinavir."
authors:
- Benesic A
- Zilly M
- Kluge F
- Weissbrich B
- Winzer R
- Klinker H
- Langmann P
journal: Infection
year: '2004'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:54:57+00:00'
---

# Lipid lowering therapy with fluvastatin and pravastatin in patients with HIV infection and antiretroviral therapy: comparison of efficacy and interaction with indinavir.
**Authors:** Benesic A, Zilly M, Kluge F, Weissbrich B, Winzer R, Klinker H, Langmann P
**Journal:** Infection (2004)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Lipoprotein disorders in HIV-positive patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) are becoming a major concern in HIV treatment, since there is growing evidence for an association between HAART-induced hyperlipidemia and increased cardiovascular risk. Yet relatively few data are available on the possible interactions of HAART and treatment with statins.

**PATIENTS AND METHODS:** In this prospective study, 25 HIV-positive, treatment-experienced patients (five female, 20 male, all Caucasian) were treated with either fluvastatin or pravastatin. Total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein (LDL) and high density lipoprotein (HDL) levels, and serum triglycerides were determined at regular intervals, as well as therapeutic drug monitoring to assess possible drug interactions.

**RESULTS:** In 13 pravastatin-treated patients, a decrease in total cholesterol levels (from 7.12 mmol/l to 6.29 mmol/l) after 12 weeks of therapy was seen. In 12 patients treated with fluvastatin, a permanent reduction of total cholesterol (from 6.46 mmol/l to 5.31 mmol/l) after 12 weeks was observed. The reduction of LDL levels was 30.2% in the fluvastatin group and 14.4% in the pravastatin group. In eight patients receiving an indinavir-containing HAART, indinavir plasma levels were not significantly influenced. No effect on triglycerides or HDL was observed.

**CONCLUSION:** Fluvastatin and pravastatin are efficient in lowering total and LDL cholesterol levels in HIV-positive patients receiving HAART. Furthermore, no influence on indinavir plasma levels could be observed. Therefore, both compounds seem to be a viable treatment option in HAART-induced hypercholesterolemia.