---
reference_id: PMID:36508284
title: Endoplasmic reticulum protein 5 attenuates platelet endoplasmic reticulum stress and secretion in a mouse model.
authors:
- Lay AJ
- Dupuy A
- Hagimola L
- Tieng J
- Larance M
- Zhang Y
- Yang J
- Kong Y
- Chiu J
- Gray E
- Qin Z
- Schmidt D
- Maclean J
- Hofma B
- Ellis M
- Kalev-Zylinska M
- Argon Y
- Jackson SP
- Hogg P
- Passam FH
journal: Blood advances
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2022008457
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:01:04+00:00'
---

# Endoplasmic reticulum protein 5 attenuates platelet endoplasmic reticulum stress and secretion in a mouse model.
**Authors:** Lay AJ, Dupuy A, Hagimola L, Tieng J, Larance M, Zhang Y, Yang J, Kong Y, Chiu J, Gray E, Qin Z, Schmidt D, Maclean J, Hofma B, Ellis M, Kalev-Zylinska M, Argon Y, Jackson SP, Hogg P, Passam FH
**Journal:** Blood advances (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1182/bloodadvances.2022008457](https://doi.org/10.1182/bloodadvances.2022008457)

## Content

Extracellular protein disulfide isomerases (PDIs), including PDI, endoplasmic reticulum protein 57 (ERp57), ERp72, ERp46, and ERp5, are required for in vivo thrombus formation in mice. Platelets secrete PDIs upon activation, which regulate platelet aggregation. However, platelets secrete only ∼10% of their PDI content extracellularly. The intracellular role of PDIs in platelet function is unknown. Here, we aim to characterize the role of ERp5 (gene Pdia6) using platelet conditional knockout mice, platelet factor 4 (Pf4) Cre+/ERp5floxed (fl)/fl. Pf4Cre+/ERp5fl/fl mice developed mild macrothrombocytopenia. Platelets deficient in ERp5 showed marked dysregulation of their ER, indicated by a twofold upregulation of ER proteins, including PDI, ERp57, ERp72, ERp46, 78 kilodalton glucose-regulated protein (GRP78), and calreticulin. ERp5-deficient platelets showed an enhanced ER stress response to ex vivo and in vivo ER stress inducers, with enhanced phosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2A and inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE1). ERp5 deficiency was associated with increased secretion of PDIs, an enhanced response to thromboxane A2 receptor activation, and increased thrombus formation in vivo. Our results support that ERp5 acts as a negative regulator of ER stress responses in platelets and highlight the importance of a disulfide isomerase in platelet ER homeostasis. The results also indicate a previously unanticipated role of platelet ER stress in platelet secretion and thrombosis. This may have important implications for the therapeutic applications of ER stress inhibitors in thrombosis.