---
reference_id: PMID:37609315
title: "The ABCD-GENE score influences vascular event rates in both users of clopidogrel and aspirin, as well as non-users of either drug in a population-based cohort study."
authors:
- Narasimhalu K
- Mayerhofer E
- Parodi L
- Georgakis MK
- De Silva DA
- Rosand J
- Anderson CD
journal: "medRxiv : the preprint server for health sciences"
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1101/2023.08.06.23293732
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:09:09+00:00'
---

# The ABCD-GENE score influences vascular event rates in both users of clopidogrel and aspirin, as well as non-users of either drug in a population-based cohort study.
**Authors:** Narasimhalu K, Mayerhofer E, Parodi L, Georgakis MK, De Silva DA, Rosand J, Anderson CD
**Journal:** medRxiv : the preprint server for health sciences (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1101/2023.08.06.23293732](https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.08.06.23293732)

## Content

**BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES:** Clopidogrel is an antiplatelet used in both primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular diseases. It is a prodrug, requiring CYP2C19 for its metabolism to the active metabolite. The ABCD-GENE score, combining clinical attributes (age, body mass index, chronic kidney disease, diabetes mellitus), with genetic information (presence of 1 or 2 loss of function (LOF) alleles in the CYP2C19 gene) has been shown to identify patients with higher risk of recurrent cardiovascular events in high-risk populations undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. We aimed to determine if the ABCD-GENE score or LOF alleles were associated with an increased risk of vascular events among clopidogrel users in a general population.

**METHODS:** We conducted a population based cohort study with UK Biobank's primary care prescription records to identify clopidogrel users. ABCD-GENE scores were calculated with closest available data from the first date of clopidogrel prescription. The number of LOF alleles present, and the clinical component ABCD, were separate exposures. The outcome of interest was a composite endpoint of vascular events comprised of myocardial infarction, ischemic stroke, and death due to either of these. We performed Cox proportional hazards models with clopidogrel as a time varying exposure to predict hazards of these outcomes. In order to determine the drug specificity of these exposures, the analyses were repeated in aspirin users, and in non-users of either aspirin or clopidogrel.

**RESULTS:** Among 11,248 clopidogrel users, 3,365 (30%) developed a vascular event over a mean follow-up of 5.95±3.94 years. ABCD-GENE score ≥10 was associated with an increased risk of vascular events (HR 1.13, 95% CI 1.03-1.23). In aspirin users, and in non-users of either aspirin or clopidogrel, the ABCD-GENE score was also associated with increased risk of vascular events. In clopidogrel users, aspirin users, and non-users of either drug, the ABCD score was associated with increased risk of vascular events. The presence of two CYP2C19 LOF alleles was associated with an increased risk of vascular events in aspirin and non-users but not in clopidogrel users.

**DISCUSSION:** In this population-based cohort study, the ABCD-GENE score was associated with an increased risk of vascular events in clopidogrel users, aspirin users, and in non-users of either drug. The clinical component, ABCD was also associated with an increased risk of vascular events in all three groups. This suggests that the ABCD-GENE score is not specific to clopidogrel users in identifying persons at high risk of vascular events in a general sample with low baseline CYP2C19 LOF allele frequency.