---
reference_id: PMID:39116784
title: Empagliflozin mitigates ponatinib-induced cardiotoxicity by restoring the connexin 43-autophagy pathway.
authors:
- Mattii L
- Moscato S
- Ippolito C
- Polizzi E
- Novo G
- Zucchi R
- De Caterina R
- Ghelardoni S
- Madonna R
journal: "Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2024.117278
corrections_in:
- 41748411
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:36:40+00:00'
---

# Empagliflozin mitigates ponatinib-induced cardiotoxicity by restoring the connexin 43-autophagy pathway.
**Authors:** Mattii L, Moscato S, Ippolito C, Polizzi E, Novo G, Zucchi R, De Caterina R, Ghelardoni S, Madonna R
**Journal:** Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.biopha.2024.117278](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopha.2024.117278)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Empagliflozin (EMPA), a selective sodium-glucose cotransporter type 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor, has been shown to reduce major adverse cardiovascular events in patients with heart failure of different etiologies, although the underlying mechanism still remains unclear. Ponatinib (PON) is a multi-tyrosine kinase inhibitor successfully used against myeloid leukemia and other human malignancies, but its cardiotoxicity remains worrisome. Cardiac connexins (Cxs) are both substrates and regulators of autophagy and responsible for proper heart function. Alteration in connexin expression and localization have been described in patients with heart failure.

**AIMS:** To assess whether EMPA can mitigate PON-induced cardiac dysfunction by restoring the connexin 43-autophagy pathway.

**METHODS AND RESULTS:** Male C57BL/6 mice, randomized into four treatment groups (CNTRL, PON, EMPA, PON+EMPA) for 28 days, showed increased autophagy, decreased Cx43 expression as well as Cx43 lateralization, and attenuated systo-diastolic cardiac dysfunction after treatment with EMPA and PON compared with PON alone. Compared with CNTRL (DMSO), cardiomyocyte-differentiated H9c2 (dH9c2) cells treated with PON showed significantly reduced cell viability to approximately 20 %, decreased autophagy, increased cell senescence and reduced DNA binding activity of serum response factor (SRF) to serum response elements (SRE), which were paralleled by reduction in cardiac actin expression. Moreover, PON induced a significant increase of Cx43 protein and its S368-phosphorylated form (pS368-Cx43), as well as their displacement from the plasma membrane to the perinuclear and nuclear cellular region. All these effects were reverted by EMPA.

**CONCLUSION:** EMPA attenuates PON-induced cardiotoxicity by reducing senescence, enhancing the SRE-SRF binding and restoring the connexin 43-autophagy pathway. This effect may pave the way to use of SGLT2 inhibitors in attenuating tyrosine-kinase inhibitor cardiotoxicity.