---
reference_id: PMID:27521155
title: Glucose uptake stimulatory potential and antidiabetic activity of the Arnebin-1 from Arnabia nobelis.
authors:
- Pandeti S
- Arha D
- Mishra A
- Reddy SS
- Srivastava AK
- Narender T
- Tamrakar AK
journal: European journal of pharmacology
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2016.08.010
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:06:20+00:00'
---

# Glucose uptake stimulatory potential and antidiabetic activity of the Arnebin-1 from Arnabia nobelis.
**Authors:** Pandeti S, Arha D, Mishra A, Reddy SS, Srivastava AK, Narender T, Tamrakar AK
**Journal:** European journal of pharmacology (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.ejphar.2016.08.010](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejphar.2016.08.010)

## Content

The enhanced disposal of glucose by the peripheral tissue is an important mechanism to regulate hyperglycemia. Here, we investigated the effect of Arnebin-1 from Arnebia nobilis, on glucose disposal in skeletal muscle cells and explored its in vivo antihyperglycemic potential. In L6 myotubes, Arnebin-1 stimulated glucose uptake, mediated through the enhanced translocation of the glucose transporter-4 (GLUT4) to plasma membrane, without changing the amount of GLUT4 or GLUT1. These effects of Arnebin-1 were synergistic with that of insulin. The effect of Arnebin-1 on glucose uptake was abolished in presence of wortmannin, and Arnebin-1 significantly stimulated the phosphorylation of Akt and downstream marker GSK-3β. Moreover, treatment with Arnebin-1 lowered postprandial blood glucose levels in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats, and improved glucose tolerance and suppressed the rises in the fasting blood glucose, serum insulin, triglycerides, and total cholesterol in db/db mice, associated with enhanced expression of the major marker of the PI-3-Kinase-mediated signaling cascade in skeletal muscle. These findings suggest that Arnebin-1 exert antihyperglycemic activity through stimulating glucose disposal in peripheral tissues via PI-3-Kinase-dependent pathway.