---
reference_id: PMID:12409978
title: Angiotensin-(1-7) inhibits angiotensin II-induced signal transduction.
authors:
- Zhu Z
- Zhong J
- Zhu S
- Liu D
- Van Der Giet M
- Tepel M
journal: Journal of cardiovascular pharmacology
year: '2002'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:08:00+00:00'
---

# Angiotensin-(1-7) inhibits angiotensin II-induced signal transduction.
**Authors:** Zhu Z, Zhong J, Zhu S, Liu D, Van Der Giet M, Tepel M
**Journal:** Journal of cardiovascular pharmacology (2002)

## Content

The inhibitory effects of angiotensin-(1-7) on angiotensin II-induced vasoconstriction, growth of vascular smooth muscle cells, stimulation of protein kinase C, extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK), and angiotensin subtype 1 receptor (AT1) and subtype 2 receptor (AT2) mRNA expression were investigated. The hemodynamic effects of angiotensin-(1-7) were measured in Wistar rats. Vasoconstriction was measured using aortic rings. DNA synthesis or protein synthesis was measured in cultured vascular smooth muscle cells using [3H] thymidine or [3H] leucine incorporation, respectively. Angiotensin II stimulated protein kinase C and ERK1/2 were measured by Western blot analysis using phosphospecific protein kinase C and ERK1/2 antibodies. AT1 and AT2 receptor mRNA expression was measured using reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. Infusion of angiotensin II significantly increased whereas infusion of angiotensin-(1-7) had no effects on mean arterial blood pressure in Wistar rats. Angiotensin-(1-7) dose-dependently showed partial antagonism on angiotensin II-induced contraction of aortic rings. Angiotensin-(1-7) showed partial antagonism on angiotensin II-induced DNA synthesis and protein synthesis. Angiotensin-(1-7) showed partial antagonism on angiotensin II-induced activation of protein kinase C and ERK1/2. The administration of angiotensin-(1-7) showed partial antagonism on angiotensin II-induced downregulation of AT1 receptor mRNA expression, whereas AT2 receptor mRNA expression was unchanged. Angiotensin-(1-7) showed partial antagonism on angiotensin II-induced intracellular signal transduction and may play a crucial role in the adaptation process of AT1 receptors to sustained stimulation of angiotensin II.