---
reference_id: PMID:39494043
title: "Clinical Diagnosis and Treatment of Scurvy in a Young Adult With Poor Dietary Habits: A Case Report and Literature Review."
authors:
- Saeid L
- Hussein Al-Janabi M
- Hassan F
journal: Case reports in dermatological medicine
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1155/2024/2779253
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:16:17+00:00'
---

# Clinical Diagnosis and Treatment of Scurvy in a Young Adult With Poor Dietary Habits: A Case Report and Literature Review.
**Authors:** Saeid L, Hussein Al-Janabi M, Hassan F
**Journal:** Case reports in dermatological medicine (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1155/2024/2779253](https://doi.org/10.1155/2024/2779253)

## Content

Scurvy, once prevalent among sailors, is now rare due to improved access to fresh fruits and vegetables yet persists in individuals with poor dietary habits. We report a case of a 35-year-old male presenting with month-long, nonpainful, nonitchy lower extremity lesions. A dermatological examination revealed follicular hyperkeratosis, perifollicular bleeding, corkscrew hairs, bleeding gums, and hemorrhagic purpura. Despite unavailable plasma vitamin C testing, scurvy was diagnosed based on clinical features and dietary history. Treatment with vitamin C resulted in significant improvement within 10 days. Inadequate intake of fruits and vegetables causes vitamin C deficiency, impairing collagen synthesis and leading to typical scurvy symptoms. This case underscores the importance of considering scurvy in patients with compatible symptoms, focusing on clinical diagnosis and treatment response when testing is unavailable. Management includes vitamin C supplementation and dietary changes, emphasizing healthcare providers' role in promoting sufficient fruit and vegetable consumptions to prevent nutritional deficiencies.