---
reference_id: PMID:31009516
title: Involvement of miR-770-5p in trastuzumab response in HER2 positive breast cancer cells.
authors:
- Noyan S
- Gurdal H
- Gur Dedeoglu B
journal: PloS one
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0215894
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:28:12+00:00'
---

# Involvement of miR-770-5p in trastuzumab response in HER2 positive breast cancer cells.
**Authors:** Noyan S, Gurdal H, Gur Dedeoglu B
**Journal:** PloS one (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1371/journal.pone.0215894](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0215894)

## Content

miRNAs may play effective roles in breast cancer so modulating their expression levels could have therapeutic benefits. Recent studies have found the combination of miRNA-based therapeutics with conventional drugs as promising. This study aimed to find drug-responsive miRNAs, and explore their anticancer activities in HER2+ breast cancer cells and regulatory role in the trastuzumab response. qRT-PCR-array analysis was performed with effective concentrations of tamoxifen and trastuzumab treated BT-474, SK-BR-3 and MCF-7 cells. Motility and invasion analyses were performed with wound healing and xCELLigence impedance-based assays respectively. Viability of cells following mimic transfection and drug treatment was assessed by WST-1 assay. Western blot analysis was used to assess miR-770-5p regulation of proteins and their phosphorylated forms. The clinical relevance of miR-770-5p was examined by TCGA data analysis. The qRT-PCR-array results indicated that miR-770-5p was responsive in a drug and cell line independent manner. Overexpression of miR-770-5p inhibited the motility and cell invasion through regulation of AKT and ERK proteins. Additionally, miR-770-5p potentiated the effectiveness of trastuzumab. Thus, regulating the expression level of miR-770-5p in combination with trastuzumab treatment may simultaneously inhibit the downstream elements of PI3K and MAPK signalling, thereby blocking the proliferation, motility and invasion capacities of HER2+ breast cancer cells.