---
reference_id: PMID:34213505
title: "Who are the patients with Crohn's disease unsuitable to receive an anti-TNFα therapy? Results from a survey of Italian physicians and literature review."
authors:
- Caprioli F
- Daperno M
- Bravatà I
- Brigido A
- Frigerio D
- Secchi O
- Rispo A
journal: "European journal of gastroenterology & hepatology"
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1097/MEG.0000000000002183
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:50:14+00:00'
---

# Who are the patients with Crohn's disease unsuitable to receive an anti-TNFα therapy? Results from a survey of Italian physicians and literature review.
**Authors:** Caprioli F, Daperno M, Bravatà I, Brigido A, Frigerio D, Secchi O, Rispo A
**Journal:** European journal of gastroenterology & hepatology (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1097/MEG.0000000000002183](https://doi.org/10.1097/MEG.0000000000002183)

## Content

**OBJECTIVES:** Anti-TNFα agents have been a staple of Crohn's disease treatment for 20 years, but they have weaknesses. New treatments have more recently become available. The aim of this paper is to examine the Crohn's disease patient population for whom anti-TNF treatments are not preferred and where new mechanisms of action should be considered.

**METHODS:** A representative sample of 100 Italian physicians with documented expertise with biological treatment of moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease were interviewed. A literature review on Crohn's disease treatment was also conducted to identify patient populations for whom anti-TNFs are unsuitable.

**RESULTS:** On the basis of the interviewed physicians, about 9% of moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease patients were noneligible to anti-TNFα due to contraindication or possible risk of intolerance, while 11% had discontinued anti-TNFα treatment due to complications or intolerance/hypersensitivity. Patients with severe heart disease and at high risk of infections were more frequently considered unsuitable. The proportion of patients considered unsuitable among elderly patients and in those with recurrent infections, cancer, and other comorbidities ranged between 40 and 60%.

**CONCLUSIONS:** We provided additional quantitative and qualitative information to help identify patients who are less suitable to anti-TNF agents, who could benefit from newer biologic agents with different mechanisms of action.