---
reference_id: PMID:19670379
title: Regulatory effects of IFN-beta on production of osteopontin and IL-17 by CD4+ T Cells in MS.
authors:
- Chen M
- Chen G
- Nie H
- Zhang X
- Niu X
- Zang YC
- Skinner SM
- Zhang JZ
- Killian JM
- Hong J
journal: European journal of immunology
year: '2009'
doi: 10.1002/eji.200838879
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:18:42+00:00'
---

# Regulatory effects of IFN-beta on production of osteopontin and IL-17 by CD4+ T Cells in MS.
**Authors:** Chen M, Chen G, Nie H, Zhang X, Niu X, Zang YC, Skinner SM, Zhang JZ, Killian JM, Hong J
**Journal:** European journal of immunology (2009)
**DOI:** [10.1002/eji.200838879](https://doi.org/10.1002/eji.200838879)

## Content

IFN-beta currently serves as one of the major treatments for MS. Its anti-inflammatory mechanism has been reported as involving a shift in cytokine balance from Th1 to Th2 in the T-cell response against elements of the myelin sheath. In addition to the Th1 and Th2 groups, two other important pro-inflammatory cytokines, IL-17 and osteopontin (OPN), are believed to play important roles in CNS inflammation in the pathogenesis of MS. In this study, we examined the potential effects of IFN-beta on the regulation of OPN and IL-17 in MS patients. We found that IFN-beta used in vitro at 0.5-3 ng/mL significantly inhibited the production of OPN in primary T cells derived from PBMC. The inhibition of OPN was determined to occur at the CD4(+) T-cell level. In addition, IFN-beta inhibited the production of IL-17 and IL-21 in CD4(+) T cells. It has been described that IFN-beta suppresses IL-17 production through the inhibition of a monocytic cytokine, the intracellular translational isoform of OPN. Our further investigation demonstrated that IFN-beta also acted directly on the CD4(+) T cells to regulate OPN and IL-17 expression through the type I IFN receptor-mediated activation of STAT1 and suppression of STAT3 activity. Administration of IFN-beta to EAE mice ameliorated the disease severity. Furthermore, spinal cord infiltration of OPN(+) and IL-17(+) cells decreased in IFN-beta-treated EAE mice along with decreases in serum levels of OPN and IL-21. Importantly, decreased OPN production by IFN-beta treatment contributes to the reduced migratory activity of T cells. Taken together, the results from both in vitro and in vivo experiments indicate that IFN-beta treatment can down-regulate the OPN and IL-17 production in MS. This study provides new insights into the mechanism of action of IFN-beta in the treatment of MS.