---
reference_id: PMID:19214148
title: Differential proteomic analysis of lymphocytes treated with mycophenolic acid reveals caspase 3-induced cleavage of rho GDP dissociation inhibitor 2.
authors:
- Heller T
- Asif AR
- Petrova DT
- Doncheva Y
- Wieland E
- Oellerich M
- Shipkova M
- Armstrong VW
journal: Therapeutic drug monitoring
year: '2009'
doi: 10.1097/FTD.0b013e318196fb73
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:54:54+00:00'
---

# Differential proteomic analysis of lymphocytes treated with mycophenolic acid reveals caspase 3-induced cleavage of rho GDP dissociation inhibitor 2.
**Authors:** Heller T, Asif AR, Petrova DT, Doncheva Y, Wieland E, Oellerich M, Shipkova M, Armstrong VW
**Journal:** Therapeutic drug monitoring (2009)
**DOI:** [10.1097/FTD.0b013e318196fb73](https://doi.org/10.1097/FTD.0b013e318196fb73)

## Content

The antiproliferative immunosuppressive drug mycophenolic acid (MPA) is an uncompetitive inhibitor of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase, a key enzyme in de novo synthesis of purine nucleotides. The latter are not only required for synthesis of DNA and RNA but also are essential for the regulation of numerous cellular signaling pathways modulated by guanine nucleotide binding proteins (G proteins). We undertook an analysis of the influence of MPA on protein expression in a T-lymphoblast cell line (CCRF-CEM), which displays concentration-dependent inhibition of proliferation by MPA to obtain insight into the influence of MPA on the cellular proteome. Cells were stimulated with phorbol myristate acetate/ionomycin and incubated in the presence or absence of MPA. Two-dimensional electrophoresis and densitometric imaging revealed 11 differentially expressed protein spots (P < 0.05) on MPA treatment, 6 with increased and 5 with decreased abundance. After in-gel tryptic digestion, proteins were identified by quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Proteins displaying increased abundance after MPA treatment included splicing factor arginine/serine-rich 2, prostaglandin E synthase 3, peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase A, and deoxyuridine 5'-triphosphate nucleotidohydrolase. Endoplasmin, proliferating cell nuclear antigen, acidic leucine-rich nuclear phosphoprotein 32 family member A, and cofilin 1 showed decreased abundance after MPA treatment. Three separate spots (1 decreased and 2 increased abundance) were identified as Rho guanosine diphosphate dissociation inhibitor 2 (Rho GDI 2) proteins. Western blotting with a monoclonal antibody directed against the Rho GDI 2 site cleaved by caspase 3 demonstrated 1 spot with increased abundance to be the caspase 3-cleaved product of Rho GDI 2 lacking the first 19 amino acids. Rho GDI 2 plays a central regulatory role in the activation of Rho guanosine triphosphatases that function as molecular switches in cell signaling pathways affecting cell cytoskeletal dynamics and motility. Our data suggest that MPA can modulate Rho GDI 2 levels in T lymphocytes, thereby potentially disrupting cell signaling pathways important for T-cell function.