---
reference_id: PMID:37596376
title: "Temporary hypothyroidism in severe crush syndrome: a potential novel entity."
authors:
- Dirim AB
- Sezer GE
- Uzun E
- Yilmaz M
journal: "Hormones (Athens, Greece)"
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1007/s42000-023-00475-1
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:06:53+00:00'
---

# Temporary hypothyroidism in severe crush syndrome: a potential novel entity.
**Authors:** Dirim AB, Sezer GE, Uzun E, Yilmaz M
**Journal:** Hormones (Athens, Greece) (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s42000-023-00475-1](https://doi.org/10.1007/s42000-023-00475-1)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Thyroid hormone synthesis is a complex process in the human body. Although the thyroid gland is essential for thyroid hormone synthesis, skeletal muscles also have crucial roles in thyroid hormone metabolism due to the deiodinase activities of the muscle cells. Hypothyroidism-related myopathy is a well-known entity. However, systemic effects of acute myopathies, such as rhabdomyolysis, on thyroid hormone metabolism have not to date been fully clarified.

**METHODS:** Fifty-three earthquake victims were evaluated retrospectively. We investigated the thyroid function tests (TFTs) among patients with creatine kinase (CK) levels higher than 10.000 U/L at admission. Fifteen patients had CK levels higher than 10.000 U/L and 12 of them had data of TFTs, including thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), free T4 (FT4), and free T3 (FT3) during hospitalization. These patients were evaluated.

**RESULTS:** TSH levels were increased in all seven patients who required HD due to severe crush syndrome. Decreased FT4 levels were detected in 71.4% of them. None of the five non-HD patients had increased TSH levels or reduced FT4 levels. During follow-up, all patients survived. Renal and thyroid functions were normalized during follow-up without thyroxin replacement in patients with no prior history of hypothyroidism. Moreover, TFTs were normalized in two patients with history of hypothyroidism under thyroxine treatment without dose adjustments.

**CONCLUSIONS:** In severe forms of crush syndrome, temporary hypothyroidism might be seen. The exact mechanism underlying this entity is not well-known. Further clinical and experimental trials should be conducted to illuminate the mechanism of disrupted thyroid hormonogenesis in crush syndrome victims.