---
reference_id: PMID:25481100
title: "Rifampicin-resistance, rpoB polymorphism and RNA polymerase genetic engineering."
authors:
- Alifano P
- Palumbo C
- Pasanisi D
- Talà A
journal: Journal of biotechnology
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.11.024
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T19:01:01+00:00'
---

# Rifampicin-resistance, rpoB polymorphism and RNA polymerase genetic engineering.
**Authors:** Alifano P, Palumbo C, Pasanisi D, Talà A
**Journal:** Journal of biotechnology (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.11.024](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.11.024)

## Content

Following its introduction in 1967, rifampicin has become a mainstay of therapy in the treatment of tuberculosis, leprosy and many other widespread diseases. Its potent antibacterial activity is due to specific inhibition of bacterial RNA polymerase. However, resistance to rifampicin was reported shortly after its introduction in the medical practice. Studies in the model organism Escherichia coli helped to define the molecular mechanism of rifampicin-resistance demonstrating that resistance is mostly due to chromosomal mutations in rpoB gene encoding the RNA polymerase β chain. These studies also revealed the amazing potential of the molecular genetics to elucidate the structure-function relationships in bacterial RNA polymerase. The scope of this paper is to illustrate how rifampicin-resistance has been recently exploited to better understand the regulatory mechanisms that control bacterial cell physiology and virulence, and how this information has been used to maneuver, on a global scale, gene expression in bacteria of industrial interest. In particular, we reviewed recent literature regarding: (i) the effects of rpoB mutations conferring rifampicin-resistance on transcription dynamics, bacterial fitness, physiology, metabolism and virulence; (ii) the occurrence in nature of "mutant-type" or duplicated rifampicin-resistant RNA polymerases; and (iii) the RNA polymerase genetic engineering method for strain improvement and drug discovery.