---
reference_id: PMID:38280275
title: The impact of the BCR-ABL oncogene in the pathology and treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia.
authors:
- El-Tanani M
- Nsairat H
- Matalka II
- Lee YF
- Rizzo M
- Aljabali AA
- Mishra V
- Mishra Y
- Hromić-Jahjefendić A
- Tambuwala MM
journal: "Pathology, research and practice"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2024.155161
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:19:01+00:00'
---

# The impact of the BCR-ABL oncogene in the pathology and treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia.
**Authors:** El-Tanani M, Nsairat H, Matalka II, Lee YF, Rizzo M, Aljabali AA, Mishra V, Mishra Y, Hromić-Jahjefendić A, Tambuwala MM
**Journal:** Pathology, research and practice (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.prp.2024.155161](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prp.2024.155161)

## Content

Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) is characterized by chromosomal aberrations involving the fusion of the BCR and ABL genes on chromosome 22, resulting from a reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 9 and 22. This fusion gives rise to the oncogenic BCR-ABL, an aberrant tyrosine kinase identified as Abl protein. The Abl protein intricately regulates the cell cycle by phosphorylating protein tyrosine residues through diverse signaling pathways. In CML, the BCR-ABL fusion protein disrupts the first exon of Abl, leading to sustained activation of tyrosine kinase and resistance to deactivation mechanisms. Pharmacological interventions, such as imatinib, effectively target BCR-ABL's tyrosine kinase activity by binding near the active site, disrupting ATP binding, and inhibiting downstream protein phosphorylation. Nevertheless, the emergence of resistance, often attributed to cap structure mutations, poses a challenge to imatinib efficacy. Current research endeavours are directed towards overcoming resistance and investigating innovative therapeutic strategies. This article offers a comprehensive analysis of the structural attributes of BCR-ABL, emphasizing its pivotal role as a biomarker and therapeutic target in CML. It underscores the imperative for ongoing research to refine treatment modalities and enhance overall outcomes in managing CML.