---
reference_id: PMID:10828835
title: "The juxtamembrane but not the carboxyl-terminal domain of the insulin receptor mediates insulin's metabolic functions in primary adipocytes and cultured hepatoma cells."
authors:
- Paz K
- Boura-Halfon S
- Wyatt LS
- LeRoith D
- Zick Y
journal: Journal of molecular endocrinology
year: '2000'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:04:59+00:00'
---

# The juxtamembrane but not the carboxyl-terminal domain of the insulin receptor mediates insulin's metabolic functions in primary adipocytes and cultured hepatoma cells.
**Authors:** Paz K, Boura-Halfon S, Wyatt LS, LeRoith D, Zick Y
**Journal:** Journal of molecular endocrinology (2000)

## Content

Insulin-stimulated signaling pathways are activated upon interactions between the intracellular domains of the receptor and its downstream effectors. Insulin receptor substrate proteins (IRS-1, -2, -3 and -4) are the best-studied substrates for the insulin receptor kinase (IRK). We have previously shown that IRS-1 and IRS-2 interact with the juxtamembrane (JM) but not with the carboxyl-terminal (CT) region of the insulin receptor (IR) in vitro. However, the precise role of these IR regions in mediating insulin's bioeffects is still unresolved. In the present work we made use of vaccinia virus as a vector for quantitative expression of the JM and CT domains within the cytoplasm of physiologically insulin-responsive primary rat adipocytes and rat hepatoma Fao cells. We could demonstrate that overexpression of either the JM or the CT domains did not inhibit either insulin binding or insulin-stimulated receptor autophosphorylation. In contrast, metabolic effects such as insulin-induced glucose utilization in adipocytes, and insulin-induced amino acid utilization in Fao hepatoma cells were inhibited (70-80%) in cells overexpressing the JM but not the CT domains of IR. The inhibitory effects of the overexpressed JM domain were accompanied by inhibition of insulin-stimulated IRS-1 phosphorylation, decreased IRS-1-associated PI3K activity, and decreased phosphorylation of the downstream effectors of PI3K, PKB and p70 S6K. Insulin-stimulated thymidine incorporation in Fao cells was also inhibited (40%) upon overexpression of the JM but not the CT region of IR. Our findings suggest that interactions between the JM region of IR and its downstream effectors are obligatory for insulin-stimulated metabolic functions in physiologically relevant insulin responsive cells. They also rule out the possibility that interaction of proteins, including PI3K, with the CT domain can provide an alternative pathway.