---
reference_id: PMID:34559426
title: "Population pharmacokinetics of subcutaneous infliximab CT-P13 in Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis."
authors:
- Hanzel J
- Bukkems LH
- Gecse KB
- "D'Haens GR"
- Mathôt RAA
journal: "Alimentary pharmacology & therapeutics"
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1111/apt.16609
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:48:53+00:00'
---

# Population pharmacokinetics of subcutaneous infliximab CT-P13 in Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis.
**Authors:** Hanzel J, Bukkems LH, Gecse KB, D'Haens GR, Mathôt RAA
**Journal:** Alimentary pharmacology & therapeutics (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1111/apt.16609](https://doi.org/10.1111/apt.16609)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Infliximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody against tumour necrosis factor-alpha for the treatment of Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). Recently, a subcutaneous formulation of CT-P13, an infliximab biosimilar, was approved for clinical use.

**AIMS:** To characterise CT-P13 pharmacokinetics (PK) and its clinically relevant determinants after subcutaneous administration through population PK modelling.

**METHODS:** Data from a two-part Phase I study with intravenous (5 mg/kg) and variable maintenance subcutaneous dosing of CT-P13 with frequent PK sampling in patients with CD or UC were used. Population PK analysis was conducted by non-linear mixed effects modelling. Covariates affecting PK parameters were chosen based on their clinical relevance (effect size of ≥20%) using a full fixed-effect modelling approach.

**RESULTS:** CT-P13 PK was described by a two-compartment model with linear elimination. The half-life in a typical 70 kg patient with serum albumin of 44 g/L was 10.8 days. The typical value for clearance was 0.355 L/d, absorption constant 0.273/d, bioavailability 79.1%, central volume of distribution 3.10 L and peripheral volume of distribution 1.93 L. Clinically relevant covariates affecting clearance were body weight (+43.2% from 70 to 120 kg), the presence of anti-drug antibodies (+39%) and serum albumin concentration (+30.1% from 44 to 32 g/L). Simulated drug exposure was comparable between routes of administration for patients weighing 50 or 70 kg, but lower with subcutaneous dosing in patients weighing 120 kg.

**CONCLUSIONS:** This first population PK model for subcutaneous CT-P13 supports fixed subcutaneous maintenance dosing, although heavy patients had lower cumulative drug exposure.