---
reference_id: PMID:21093092
title: Pegylated interferon alpha targets Wnt signaling by inducing nuclear export of β-catenin.
authors:
- Thompson MD
- Dar MJ
- Monga SP
journal: Journal of hepatology
year: '2011'
doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2010.07.020
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:24:57+00:00'
---

# Pegylated interferon alpha targets Wnt signaling by inducing nuclear export of β-catenin.
**Authors:** Thompson MD, Dar MJ, Monga SP
**Journal:** Journal of hepatology (2011)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jhep.2010.07.020](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhep.2010.07.020)

## Content

**BACKGROUND & AIMS:** Pegylated-Interferon-α2a (peg-IFN), a first line therapy for Hepatitis C virus (HCV) patients, also impacts the recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The activation of the Wnt pathway due to β-catenin gene mutations contributes to the development of a significant subset of HCC. Herein, we explored the effect of peg-IFN on Wnt/β-catenin signaling in vitro and in vivo.

**METHODS:** Multiple human hepatoma cell lines were treated with Peg-IFN to assess its effect on the Wnt pathway and the mechanisms involved. Transgenic (TG) mice expressing stable β-catenin mutant in the liver were exposed to diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and treated with peg-IFN.

**RESULTS:** In vitro, peg-IFN decreased the transcriptional activity of β-catenin/Tcf and did so independently of JAK/Stat signaling. Peg-IFN treatment led to increased mRNA and protein expression of RanBP3, a known β-catenin nuclear export factor, in all hepatoma cells. Co-precipitation studies showed an increased association between RanBP3 and β-catenin after peg-IFN treatment. The siRNA-mediated RanBP3 knockdown abrogated Peg-IFN-induced decrease in TOPFlash reporter activity. In vivo, Peg-IFN treatment led to increased nuclear RanBP3, decreased nuclear β-catenin and cyclin D1, and decreased cytoplasmic glutamine synthetase. Increased association of RanBP3 and β-catenin was also observed in vivo in response to Peg-IFN that led to decreased hepatocyte proliferation.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Peg-IFN inhibits β-catenin signaling through the up-regulation of RanBP3, which may be a contributory mechanism for the delayed HCC and improved survival in treated HCV patients. This observation might have chemo-preventive or chemo-therapeutic implications in tumor with aberrant Wnt pathway activation.