---
reference_id: PMID:30077198
title: "Garcinol, an effective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor for the treatment of Parkinson's disease."
authors:
- Mazumder MK
- Paul R
- Phukan BC
- Dutta A
- Chakrabarty J
- Bhattacharya P
- Borah A
journal: Medical hypotheses
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2018.06.009
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:02:23+00:00'
---

# Garcinol, an effective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
**Authors:** Mazumder MK, Paul R, Phukan BC, Dutta A, Chakrabarty J, Bhattacharya P, Borah A
**Journal:** Medical hypotheses (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.mehy.2018.06.009](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mehy.2018.06.009)

## Content

Loss of dopamine containing neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta of midbrain, and resultant depletion of dopamine in the striatum is the cause of Parkinson's disease (PD), which is associated with motor abnormalities. Replenishment of dopamine by oral supplementation of its precursor, the levodopa (L-DOPA), remains the primary mode of treatment of PD, despite its potential side-effects after prolonged use in patients. To reduce the daily dosing of L-DOPA in patients, inhibitors of dopamine catabolizing enzymes, particularly monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B), are prescribed. The most widely used MAO-B inhibitor to maintain the bioavailability of dopamine in the brain of PD patients is L-deprenyl, despite of its potential side-effects. The present study identified Garcinol as a potential candidate in the treatment paradigm of PD by virtue of its exorbitant MAO-B inhibitory potential. The inhibitory potential is comparable to the known MAO-B inhibitors, which was evaluated using molecular docking technique. Owing to its known antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and catechol-o-methyl transferase inhibitory potential, the molecule would confer neuroprotection as well, and thus, the present study is of immense significance in the treatment paradigm of PD.