---
reference_id: PMID:39142530
title: "Natural compounds combined with imatinib as promising antileukemic therapy: An updated review."
authors:
- Meneses-Sagrero SE
- Rascón-Valenzuela LA
- Arellano-García ME
- Toledano-Magaña Y
- García-Ramos JC
journal: Fitoterapia
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.fitote.2024.106185
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:19:44+00:00'
---

# Natural compounds combined with imatinib as promising antileukemic therapy: An updated review.
**Authors:** Meneses-Sagrero SE, Rascón-Valenzuela LA, Arellano-García ME, Toledano-Magaña Y, García-Ramos JC
**Journal:** Fitoterapia (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.fitote.2024.106185](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fitote.2024.106185)

## Content

Natural products (NP) have been an alternative therapy for several diseases for centuries, and they also serve as an essential source of bioactive molecules, enhancing our drug discovery capacity. Among these NP, some phytochemicals have shown multiple biological effects, including anticancer activity, with higher effectiveness and less toxicity than actual treatments, suggesting their possible use on resilient human malignancies such as leukemia. Imatinib mesylate (Im) is a selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor widely used as an anticancer drug, the gold standard to attend chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Nevertheless, resistance to this drug in patients with CML renders it insufficient to eliminate cells with Philadelphia chromosome (BCR/ABL+). Moreover, recent studies show that imatinib can induce genotoxic and chromosomic damage in some in vitro and in vivo models. These facts urge finding new therapeutic alternatives to increase the effectiveness of antileukemic treatment. Recent research has shown that the combined effects of phytochemicals with imatinib can improve the cytotoxicity or resensitized the resistant cells to this drug in diverse leukemia cell lines. Independent mechanisms of action among phytochemicals and imatinib include BCR/ABL regulation, downregulation of transcription factors, inhibition of anti-apoptotic and activation of pro-apoptotic proteins, apoptosis induction dependent- and independent of ROS-overproduction, membrane functions disruption, induction of cell cycle arrest, and cell death. This review summarizes and discusses the synergic effect of some phytochemicals combined with imatinib on leukemia cells and the mechanism of action proposed for these combinations, looking to contribute to developing new effective alternatives for leukemia treatment.