---
reference_id: PMID:36173545
title: "Short-term DAPT after coronary stenting has similar ischemic and bleeding outcomes as long-term DAPT: a 5-year population-based cohort study."
authors:
- Balaji Srinivasan S
- Sehly A
- Jaltotage B
- Qin S
- Ihdayhid AR
- Marangou J
- Rankin JM
- Sanfilippo FM
- Dwivedi G
journal: Irish journal of medical science
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1007/s11845-022-03171-y
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:13:40+00:00'
---

# Short-term DAPT after coronary stenting has similar ischemic and bleeding outcomes as long-term DAPT: a 5-year population-based cohort study.
**Authors:** Balaji Srinivasan S, Sehly A, Jaltotage B, Qin S, Ihdayhid AR, Marangou J, Rankin JM, Sanfilippo FM, Dwivedi G
**Journal:** Irish journal of medical science (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s11845-022-03171-y](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11845-022-03171-y)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Optimal duration of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) following percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) remains controversial.

**AIM:** We investigated the relationship between DAPT duration following PCI and long-term ischemic and bleeding outcomes under real-world conditions.

**METHODS:** Patients aged ≥ 65 years who underwent PCI with stenting in Western Australian hospitals between 2003 and 2008 and survived 2 years were identified from linked hospital admissions data. The primary outcome was major adverse cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events (MACCE) defined as a composite of all-cause death and admissions for acute coronary syndrome (ACS), coronary artery revascularization procedure, stroke, and major bleeding. Secondary outcomes were ACS admissions, all-cause death, and major bleeding admissions. Patients were followed up for 5 years from initial PCI.

**RESULTS:** A total of 3963 patients were included in the final analysis. The mean age of the cohort was 74.5 ± 6.1 years with 67.3% males. No significant difference was seen with 6-12, 12-18, or 18-24 months DAPT, compared to 0-6 months DAPT duration for MACCE and all secondary outcomes at 3- and 5-year post-PCI.

**CONCLUSION:** There is no significant difference in both bleeding and ischemic outcomes in long-term DAPT as compared to short-term DAPT for first- and second-generation drug-eluting stents in a real-world population.