---
reference_id: PMID:1942544
title: "[Management of cesarean section under replacement therapy with factor VIII concentrates in a pregnant case with congenital combined deficiency of factor V and factor VIII]."
authors:
- Ueno H
- Asami M
- Yoneda R
- Muraoka A
- Oribe T
- Suzuki K
- Maeda M
- Chinzei T
journal: "[Rinsho ketsueki] The Japanese journal of clinical hematology"
year: '1991'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:13:13+00:00'
---

# [Management of cesarean section under replacement therapy with factor VIII concentrates in a pregnant case with congenital combined deficiency of factor V and factor VIII].
**Authors:** Ueno H, Asami M, Yoneda R, Muraoka A, Oribe T, Suzuki K, Maeda M, Chinzei T
**Journal:** [Rinsho ketsueki] The Japanese journal of clinical hematology (1991)

## Content

The congenital combined deficiency of Factor V and Factor VIII, a rare bleeding disorder, was identified in a 25-year-old woman. She was admitted to our hospital with a complaint of genital bleeding. Her prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time were prolonged. She had low levels of Factor V coagulant activity (F. V:C) 14%, and Factor VIII coagulant activity (F. VIII:C), 12%, and normal levels of von Willebrand factor antigen (vWF:Ag), ristocetin cofactor (Rcof) and Protein C antigen. Her Protein C inhibitor level was slightly low. Her Rcof, vWF:Ag and F. VIII:C were elevated following administration of 1-deamino-8-D-arginine-vasopressin (DDAVP), but her F. V:C remained unchanged. Four years later, her F. VIII:C rose to 70% during the course of her pregnancy, but her F. V:C value remained low. It was expected that the vaginal delivery would be possible at the termination of pregnancy. Premature rupture of the membranes and an anomaly of rotation appeared in the course of delivery, however, and cesarean section was accomplished without excess bleeding under replacement therapy with Factor VIII concentrates. These findings suggested that DDAVP and Factor VIII concentrates were useful for management of her delivery. However the mechanisms of the rise of plasma F. VIII:C during pregnancy in a case with congenital combined deficiency of Factor V and Factor VIII are unclear.