---
reference_id: PMID:17002868
title: GTP induces S-phase cell-cycle arrest and inhibits DNA synthesis in K562 cells but not in normal human peripheral lymphocytes.
authors:
- Moosavi MA
- Yazdanparast R
- Lotfi A
journal: Journal of biochemistry and molecular biology
year: '2006'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:54:55+00:00'
---

# GTP induces S-phase cell-cycle arrest and inhibits DNA synthesis in K562 cells but not in normal human peripheral lymphocytes.
**Authors:** Moosavi MA, Yazdanparast R, Lotfi A
**Journal:** Journal of biochemistry and molecular biology (2006)

## Content

Since differentiation therapy is one of the promising strategies for treatment of leukemia, universal efforts have been focused on finding new differentiating agents. In that respect, we used guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP) to study its effects on K562 cell line. GTP, at concentrations between 25-200 microM, inhibited proliferation (3-90%) and induced 5-78% increase in benzidine-positive cells after 6-days of treatments of K562 cells. Flow cytometric analyses of glycophorine A (GPA) showed that GTP can induce expression of this marker in more mature erythroid cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. These effects of GTP were also accompanied with inhibition of DNA synthesis (measured by [3H]-thymidine incorporation) and early S-phase cell cycle arrest by 96 h of exposure. In contrast, no detectable effects were observed when GTP administered to unstimulated human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL). However, GTP induced an increase in proliferation, DNA synthesis and viability of mitogen-stimulated PBL cells. In addition, growth inhibition and differentiating effects of GTP were also induced by its corresponding nucleotides GDP, GMP and guanosine (Guo). In heat-inactivated medium, where rapid degradation of GTP via extracellular nucleotidases is slow, the anti-proliferative and differentiating effects of all type of guanine nucleotides (except Guo) were significantly decreased. Moreover, adenosine, as an inhibitor of Guo transporter system, markedly reduced the GTP effects in K562 cells, suggesting that the extracellular degradation of GTP or its final conversion to Guo may account for the mechanism of GTP effects. This view is further supported by the fact that GTP and Guo are both capable of impeding the effects of mycophenolic acid. In conclusion, our data will hopefully have important impact on pharmaceutical evaluation of guanine nucleotides for leukemia treatments.