---
reference_id: PMID:26216956
title: Roles of unphosphorylated ISGF3 in HCV infection and interferon responsiveness.
authors:
- Sung PS
- Cheon H
- Cho CH
- Hong SH
- Park DY
- Seo HI
- Park SH
- Yoon SK
- Stark GR
- Shin EC
journal: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1073/pnas.1513341112
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:24:59+00:00'
---

# Roles of unphosphorylated ISGF3 in HCV infection and interferon responsiveness.
**Authors:** Sung PS, Cheon H, Cho CH, Hong SH, Park DY, Seo HI, Park SH, Yoon SK, Stark GR, Shin EC
**Journal:** Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1073/pnas.1513341112](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1513341112)

## Content

Up-regulation of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) is sustained in hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected livers. Here, we investigated the mechanism of prolonged ISG expression and its role in IFN responsiveness during HCV infection in relation to unphosphorylated IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 (U-ISGF3), recently identified as a tripartite transcription factor formed by high levels of IFN response factor 9 (IRF9), STAT1, and STAT2 without tyrosine phosphorylation of the STATs. The level of U-ISGF3, but not tyrosine phosphorylated STAT1, is significantly elevated in response to IFN-λ and IFN-β during chronic HCV infection. U-ISGF3 prolongs the expression of a subset of ISGs and restricts HCV chronic replication. However, paradoxically, high levels of U-ISGF3 also confer unresponsiveness to IFN-α therapy. As a mechanism of U-ISGF3-induced resistance to IFN-α, we found that ISG15, a U-ISGF3-induced protein, sustains the abundance of ubiquitin-specific protease 18 (USP18), a negative regulator of IFN signaling. Our data demonstrate that U-ISGF3 induced by IFN-λs and -β drives prolonged expression of a set of ISGs, leading to chronic activation of innate responses and conferring a lack of response to IFN-α in HCV-infected liver.