---
reference_id: PMID:22407832
title: Dual mTORC1/2 and HER2 blockade results in antitumor activity in preclinical models of breast cancer resistant to anti-HER2 therapy.
authors:
- García-García C
- Ibrahim YH
- Serra V
- Calvo MT
- Guzmán M
- Grueso J
- Aura C
- Pérez J
- Jessen K
- Liu Y
- Rommel C
- Tabernero J
- Baselga J
- Scaltriti M
journal: "Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research"
year: '2012'
doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-11-2750
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:45:18+00:00'
---

# Dual mTORC1/2 and HER2 blockade results in antitumor activity in preclinical models of breast cancer resistant to anti-HER2 therapy.
**Authors:** García-García C, Ibrahim YH, Serra V, Calvo MT, Guzmán M, Grueso J, Aura C, Pérez J, Jessen K, Liu Y, Rommel C, Tabernero J, Baselga J, Scaltriti M
**Journal:** Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research (2012)
**DOI:** [10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-11-2750](https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-11-2750)

## Content

**PURPOSE:** The PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway is an attractive target in HER2-positive breast cancer that is refractory to anti-HER2 therapy. The hypothesis is that the suppression of this pathway results in sensitization to anti-HER2 agents. However, this combinatorial strategy has not been comprehensively tested in models of trastuzumab and lapatinib resistance.

**EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN:** We analyzed in vitro cell viability and induction of apoptosis in five different cell lines resistant to trastuzumab and lapatinib. Inhibition of HER2/HER3 phosphorylation, PI3K/Akt/mTOR, and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathways was evaluated by Western blotting. Tumor growth inhibition after treatment with lapatinib, INK-128, or the combination of both agents was evaluated in three different animal models: two cell-based xenograft models refractory to both trastuzumab and lapatinib and a xenograft derived from a patient who relapsed on trastuzumab-based therapy.

**RESULTS:** The addition of lapatinib to INK-128 prevented both HER2 and HER3 phosphorylation induced by INK-128, resulting in inhibition of both PI3K/Akt/mTOR and ERK pathways. This dual blockade produced synergistic induction of cell death in five different HER2-positive cell lines resistant to trastuzumab and lapatinib. In vivo, both cell line-based and patient-derived xenografts showed exquisite sensitivity to the antitumor activity of the combination of lapatinib and INK-128, which resulted in durable tumor shrinkage and exhibited no signs of toxicity in these models.

**CONCLUSIONS:** The simultaneous blockade of both PI3K/Akt/mTOR and ERK pathways obtained by combining lapatinib with INK-128 acts synergistically in inducing cell death and tumor regression in breast cancer models refractory to anti-HER2 therapy.