---
reference_id: PMID:30311152
title: Incidence and Management of Infusion Reactions to Infliximab in an Alternate Care Setting.
authors:
- Checkley LA
- Kristofek L
- Kile S
- Bolgar W
journal: Digestive diseases and sciences
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1007/s10620-018-5319-6
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:50:33+00:00'
---

# Incidence and Management of Infusion Reactions to Infliximab in an Alternate Care Setting.
**Authors:** Checkley LA, Kristofek L, Kile S, Bolgar W
**Journal:** Digestive diseases and sciences (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s10620-018-5319-6](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10620-018-5319-6)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Infliximab is a chimeric anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) monoclonal antibody that ameliorates inflammation when it binds to and neutralizes TNF-α. It is often used in patients with Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis to reduce the severity of disease symptoms and induce disease remission. Infusions are generally administered in the hospital setting due to concerns over patient safety, and limited data exist regarding the incidence and management of infusion reactions (IRs) in an alternate care setting without direct physician oversight.

**AIMS:** The aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence of IRs following administration of infliximab and associated management approaches in an alternate care setting.

**METHODS:** A retrospective chart review of 796 patients with Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis that received a combined 5581 infusions with one home infusion provider between January 2014 and November 2016 was conducted. Timing, severity, management approach, and outcomes of IRs were abstracted and analyzed.

**RESULTS:** A total of 109 infusion reactions (2.0% of all infusions) were recorded in 62 patients (7.8% of all patients). The majority of these reactions were acute and mild or moderate in severity and resolved with rate adjustments and/or medication. Emergency room visits were required in 0.1% of all infusions, and 0.3% of all infusions were not completed due to a reaction.

**CONCLUSIONS:** IRs to infliximab were uncommon and mostly mild or moderate in severity. Resolution of the IR and continuation of therapy was achieved in most patients through a management approach that included prompt recognition and initial treatment via rate adjustments and medications according to physician's orders.