---
reference_id: PMID:31315208
title: Amelioration of Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli-Induced Intestinal Barrier Disruption by Low-Molecular-Weight Chitosan in Weaned Pigs is Related to Suppressed Intestinal Inflammation and Apoptosis.
authors:
- Wan J
- Zhang J
- Wu G
- Chen D
- Yu B
- Huang Z
- Luo Y
- Zheng P
- Luo J
- Mao X
- Yu J
- He J
journal: International journal of molecular sciences
year: '2019'
doi: 10.3390/ijms20143485
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:49:53+00:00'
---

# Amelioration of Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli-Induced Intestinal Barrier Disruption by Low-Molecular-Weight Chitosan in Weaned Pigs is Related to Suppressed Intestinal Inflammation and Apoptosis.
**Authors:** Wan J, Zhang J, Wu G, Chen D, Yu B, Huang Z, Luo Y, Zheng P, Luo J, Mao X, Yu J, He J
**Journal:** International journal of molecular sciences (2019)
**DOI:** [10.3390/ijms20143485](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms20143485)

## Content

Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) infection destroys the intestinal barrier integrity, in turn, disrupting intestinal homoeostasis. Low-molecular-weight chitosan (LMWC) is a water-soluble chitosan derivative with versatile biological properties. Herein, we examined whether LMWC could relieve ETEC-induced intestinal barrier damage in weaned pigs. Twenty-four weaned pigs were allotted to three treatments: (1) non-infected control; (2) ETEC-infected control; and (3) ETEC infection + LMWC supplementation (100 mg/kg). On day 12, pigs in the infected groups were administered 100 mL of ETEC at 2.6 × 109 colony-forming units/mL to induce intestinal barrier injury. Three days later, serum samples were obtained from all pigs, which were then slaughtered to collect intestinal samples. We evidenced that LMWC not only increased (P < 0.05) the occludin protein abundance but also decreased (P < 0.05) the interleukin-6, tumour necrosis factor-α and mast cell tryptase contents, and the apoptotic epithelial cell percentages, in the small intestine of ETEC-infected pigs. Furthermore, LMWC down-regulated (P < 0.05) the small intestinal expression levels of critical inflammatory- and apoptotic-related genes, such as Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and tumour necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1), as well as the intra-nuclear nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) p65 protein abundance, in the ETEC-infected pigs. Our study indicated a protective effect of LMWC on ETEC-triggered intestinal barrier disruption in weaned pigs, which involves the repression of intestinal inflammatory responses via blocking the TLR4/NF-κB signalling pathway and the depression of epithelial cell death via TNFR1-dependent apoptosis.