---
reference_id: PMID:36047157
title: "[Preclinical and clinical researches of Denileukin Diftitox (Genetical Recombination) (Remitoro®), a novel agent for T-cell lymphoma]."
authors:
- Shiiba H
- Takechi A
- Asakura S
- Kawaguchi T
- Sato M
journal: Nihon yakurigaku zasshi. Folia pharmacologica Japonica
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1254/fpj.22032
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:21:13+00:00'
---

# [Preclinical and clinical researches of Denileukin Diftitox (Genetical Recombination) (Remitoro®), a novel agent for T-cell lymphoma].
**Authors:** Shiiba H, Takechi A, Asakura S, Kawaguchi T, Sato M
**Journal:** Nihon yakurigaku zasshi. Folia pharmacologica Japonica (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1254/fpj.22032](https://doi.org/10.1254/fpj.22032)

## Content

Denileukin Diftitox (DD) is a recombinant fusion protein of diphtheria toxin (DT) fragments and human interleukin-2 (IL-2). DD binds to IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) expressed on tumor cells and is taken up into the cells. Subsequently, DT fragments with adenosine diphosphate ribosylation enzyme inhibit protein synthesis, then ultimately trigger cell death. DD binds to both high- and intermediate-affinity IL-2Rs via IL-2 domain and inhibits growth of human T-cell lymphomas cell lines. E7777, which contains DD as an active component, has improved purity and an increased percentage of active monomer compared with the approved drug E7272 (ONTAK in the US, not approved in Japan). In the phase I clinical study in Japanese patients with relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL), the maximum tolerated dose and recommended dose of E7777 were 9 μg/kg/day (administered on Days 1-5 of each cycle) based on the evaluation of dose-limiting toxicity. In the phase II clinical study, the objective response rate was 36.1%, showing comparable efficacy to existing therapies. E7777 showed anti-tumor activity observed across the range of CD25 expression. Grade 3 or higher adverse events (AE) occurred in 94.6%, and serious AE such as capillary leak syndrome and rhabdomyolysis were reported. Therefore, safety monitoring activities have been continued along with alerting related events. Based on these results, E7777 obtained a new drug approval in Japan in March 2021 for the indication of relapsed or refractory PTCL/CTCL.