---
reference_id: PMID:37870424
title: Effect of lipid-lowering therapy on platelet reactivity in patients treated with and without antiplatelet therapy.
authors:
- Giordano S
- Franchi F
- Rollini F
- Al Saleh T
- Uzunoglu E
- Costa F
- Angiolillo DJ
- Ortega-Paz L
journal: Minerva cardiology and angiology
year: '2024'
doi: 10.23736/S2724-5683.23.06411-6
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:41:10+00:00'
---

# Effect of lipid-lowering therapy on platelet reactivity in patients treated with and without antiplatelet therapy.
**Authors:** Giordano S, Franchi F, Rollini F, Al Saleh T, Uzunoglu E, Costa F, Angiolillo DJ, Ortega-Paz L
**Journal:** Minerva cardiology and angiology (2024)
**DOI:** [10.23736/S2724-5683.23.06411-6](https://doi.org/10.23736/S2724-5683.23.06411-6)

## Content

Circulating lipoproteins may interact with platelets, increasing platelet sensitivity to aggregating agonists and their tendency towards activation and thrombus formation. In particular, patients with hypercholesterolemia exhibit a higher degree of platelet reactivity compared to normolipidemic. Moreover, accruing evidence report that lipid-lowering therapies can reduce thrombus formation, particularly in the absence of concomitant antiplatelet therapy. However, the underlying biological mechanism(s) explaining these clinical observations are not completely understood. Baseline platelet reactivity and high on-treatment platelet reactivity while on antiplatelet therapy (e.g., aspirin and clopidogrel) are associated with poor clinical outcomes. Therefore, strategies to reduce baseline platelet reactivity or improve the pharmacodynamic profile of antiplatelet therapies are an unmet clinical need. The potential use of lipid-lowering therapies for optimizing platelet reactivity provides several advantages as there is strong evidence that reducing circulating lipoproteins can improve clinical outcomes, and they may avoid the need for potent antiplatelet therapies that, although more effective, are associated with increased bleeding risk. This review will provide a systematic overview of the effects of lipid-lowering therapy on platelet reactivity in patients treated with and without antiplatelet therapy. We will focus on the potential biological mechanism(s) of action and the effect of statins, ezetimibe, proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin 9 inhibitors, omega-3 fatty acids, and recombinant high-density lipoprotein on platelet reactivity. Ultimately, we will assess the current gaps in the literature and future perspective in the field.