---
reference_id: PMID:25991817
title: Efficacy of SERD/SERM Hybrid-CDK4/6 Inhibitor Combinations in Models of Endocrine Therapy-Resistant Breast Cancer.
authors:
- Wardell SE
- Ellis MJ
- Alley HM
- Eisele K
- VanArsdale T
- Dann SG
- Arndt KT
- Primeau T
- Griffin E
- Shao J
- Crowder R
- Lai JP
- Norris JD
- McDonnell DP
- Li S
journal: "Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research"
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-0360
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:15:57+00:00'
---

# Efficacy of SERD/SERM Hybrid-CDK4/6 Inhibitor Combinations in Models of Endocrine Therapy-Resistant Breast Cancer.
**Authors:** Wardell SE, Ellis MJ, Alley HM, Eisele K, VanArsdale T, Dann SG, Arndt KT, Primeau T, Griffin E, Shao J, Crowder R, Lai JP, Norris JD, McDonnell DP, Li S
**Journal:** Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-0360](https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-0360)

## Content

**PURPOSE:** Endocrine therapy, using tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor, remains first-line therapy for the management of estrogen receptor (ESR1)-positive breast cancer. However, ESR1 mutations or other ligand-independent ESR1 activation mechanisms limit the duration of response. The clinical efficacy of fulvestrant, a selective estrogen receptor downregulator (SERD) that competitively inhibits agonist binding to ESR1 and triggers receptor downregulation, has confirmed that ESR1 frequently remains engaged in endocrine therapy-resistant cancers. We evaluated the activity of a new class of selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERM)/SERD hybrids (SSH) that downregulate ESR1 in relevant models of endocrine-resistant breast cancer. Building on the observation that concurrent inhibition of ESR1 and the cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 (CDK4/6) significantly increased progression-free survival in advanced patients, we explored the activity of different SERD- or SSH-CDK4/6 inhibitor combinations in models of endocrine therapy-resistant ESR1(+) breast cancer.

**EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN:** SERDs, SSHs, and the CDK4/6 inhibitor palbociclib were evaluated as single agents or in combination in established cellular and animal models of endocrine therapy-resistant ESR1(+) breast cancer.

**RESULTS:** The combination of palbociclib with a SERD or an SSH was shown to effectively inhibit the growth of MCF7 cell or ESR1-mutant patient-derived tumor xenografts. In tamoxifen-resistant MCF7 xenografts, the palbociclib/SERD or SSH combination resulted in an increased duration of response as compared with either drug alone.

**CONCLUSIONS:** A SERD- or SSH-palbociclib combination has therapeutic potential in breast tumors resistant to endocrine therapies or those expressing ESR1 mutations. See related commentary by DeMichele and Chodosh, p. 4999.