---
reference_id: PMID:35038735
title: Canonical Thyroid Hormone Receptor β Action Stimulates Hepatocyte Proliferation in Male Mice.
authors:
- Hönes GS
- Kerp H
- Hoppe C
- Kowalczyk M
- Zwanziger D
- Baba HA
- Führer D
- Moeller LC
journal: Endocrinology
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1210/endocr/bqac003
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:06:50+00:00'
---

# Canonical Thyroid Hormone Receptor β Action Stimulates Hepatocyte Proliferation in Male Mice.
**Authors:** Hönes GS, Kerp H, Hoppe C, Kowalczyk M, Zwanziger D, Baba HA, Führer D, Moeller LC
**Journal:** Endocrinology (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1210/endocr/bqac003](https://doi.org/10.1210/endocr/bqac003)

## Content

**CONTEXT:** 3,5,3'-L-triiodothyronine (T3) is a potent inducer of hepatocyte proliferation via the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. Previous studies suggested the involvement of rapid noncanonical thyroid hormone receptor (TR) β signaling, directly activating hepatic Wnt/β-catenin signaling independent from TRβ DNA binding. However, the mechanism by which T3 increases Wnt/β-catenin signaling in hepatocytes has not yet been determined.

**OBJECTIVE:** We aimed to determine whether DNA binding of TRβ is required for stimulation of hepatocyte proliferation by T3.

**METHODS:** Wild-type (WT) mice, TRβ knockout mice (TRβ KO), and TRβ mutant mice with either specifically abrogated DNA binding (TRβ GS) or abrogated direct phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase activation (TRβ 147F) were treated with T3 for 6 hours or 7 days. Hepatocyte proliferation was assessed by Kiel-67 (Ki67) staining and apoptosis by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling assay. Activation of β-catenin signaling was measured in primary murine hepatocytes. Gene expression was analyzed by microarray, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction.

**RESULTS:** T3 induced hepatocyte proliferation with an increased number of Ki67-positive cells in WT and TRβ 147F mice (9.2% ± 6.5% and 10.1% ± 2.9%, respectively) compared to TRβ KO and TRβ GS mice (1.2% ± 1.1% and 1.5% ± 0.9%, respectively). Microarray analysis and GSEA showed that genes of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway-among them, Fzd8 (frizzled receptor 8) and Ctnnb1 (β-catenin)-were positively enriched only in T3-treated WT and TRβ 147F mice while B-cell translocation gene anti-proliferation factor 2 was repressed. Consequently, expression of Ccnd1 (CyclinD1) was induced.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Instead of directly activating Wnt signaling, T3 and TRβ induce key genes of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, ultimately stimulating hepatocyte proliferation via CyclinD1. Thus, canonical transcriptional TRβ action is necessary for T3-mediated stimulation of hepatocyte proliferation.