---
reference_id: PMID:24366749
title: Genetic basis for vancomycin-enhanced cephalosporin susceptibility in vancomycin-resistant enterococci revealed using counterselection with dominant-negative thymidylate synthase.
authors:
- Kristich CJ
- Djorić D
- Little JL
journal: Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy
year: '2014'
doi: 10.1128/AAC.02001-13
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:50:01+00:00'
---

# Genetic basis for vancomycin-enhanced cephalosporin susceptibility in vancomycin-resistant enterococci revealed using counterselection with dominant-negative thymidylate synthase.
**Authors:** Kristich CJ, Djorić D, Little JL
**Journal:** Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy (2014)
**DOI:** [10.1128/AAC.02001-13](https://doi.org/10.1128/AAC.02001-13)

## Content

Antibiotic-resistant enterococci are major causes of hospital-acquired infections. All enterococci are intrinsically resistant to most cephalosporins, antibiotics in the beta-lactam family that impair peptidoglycan synthesis by inactivating the transpeptidases responsible for cross-linking. In addition, clinical isolates of enterococci often possess acquired resistance to vancomycin, a glycopeptide antibiotic that impairs peptidoglycan biosynthesis by a mechanism distinct from that of the beta-lactams, namely, by binding to the D-Ala-D-Ala termini found in peptidoglycan precursors to prevent their utilization by biosynthetic transglycosylases. Antimicrobial synergism between vancomycin and beta-lactams against vancomycin-resistant enterococci was originally described decades ago, but the genetic basis for synergy has remained unknown. Because a complete understanding of the mechanism underlying synergy between vancomycin and beta-lactams might suggest new targets or strategies for therapeutic intervention against antibiotic-resistant enterococci, we explored the genetic basis for synergy between vancomycin and cephalosporins in Enterococcus faecalis. To do so, we developed a counterselection strategy based on a dominant-negative mutant of thymidylate synthase and implemented this approach to create a panel of mutants in vancomycin-resistant E. faecalis. Our results confirm that vancomycin promotes synergy by inducing expression of the van resistance genes, as a mutant in which the van genes are expressed in the absence of vancomycin exhibits susceptibility to cephalosporins. Further, we show that peptidoglycan precursors substituted with D-Ala-D-Lac are not required for vancomycin-enhanced cephalosporin sensitivity. Instead, production of the D,D-carboxypeptidase VanYB is both necessary and sufficient to dramatically sensitize E. faecalis to cephalosporins.