---
reference_id: PMID:35166127
title: d-Allulose Ameliorates Hyperglycemia Through IRE1α Sulfonation-RIDD-Sirt1 Decay Axis in the Skeletal Muscle.
authors:
- Lee HY
- Lee GH
- Hoang TH
- Park SA
- Lee J
- Lim J
- Sa S
- Kim GE
- Han JS
- Kim J
- Chae HJ
journal: "Antioxidants & redox signaling"
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1089/ars.2021.0207
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:05:19+00:00'
---

# d-Allulose Ameliorates Hyperglycemia Through IRE1α Sulfonation-RIDD-Sirt1 Decay Axis in the Skeletal Muscle.
**Authors:** Lee HY, Lee GH, Hoang TH, Park SA, Lee J, Lim J, Sa S, Kim GE, Han JS, Kim J, Chae HJ
**Journal:** Antioxidants & redox signaling (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1089/ars.2021.0207](https://doi.org/10.1089/ars.2021.0207)

## Content

Aims: The skeletal muscle maintains glucose disposal via insulin signaling and glucose transport. The progression of diabetes and insulin resistance is critically influenced by endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. d-Allulose, a low-calorie sugar substitute, has shown crucial physiological activities under conditions involving hyperglycemia and insulin resistance. However, the molecular mechanisms of d-allulose in the progression of diabetes have not been fully elucidated. Here, we evaluated the effect of d-allulose on hyperglycemia-associated ER stress responses in human skeletal myoblasts (HSkM) and db/db diabetic and high-fat diet-fed mice. Results: d-allulose effectively controlled glycemic markers such as insulin and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), showing anti-diabetic effects by inhibiting the disruption of insulin receptor substrate (IRS)-1 tyrosine phosphorylation and glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) expression, in which the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt) pathway is involved. The levels of glucose dysmetabolism-based NADPH oxidase, such as NADPH-dependent oxidoreductase (Nox) 4, were highly increased, and their interaction with IRE1α and the resultant sulfonation-regulated IRE1-dependent decay (RIDD)-Sirt1 decay were also highly increased under diabetic conditions, which were controlled with d-allulose treatment. Skeletal muscle cells grown with a high glucose medium supplemented with d-allulose showed controlled IRE1α sulfonation-RIDD-Sirt1 decay, in which Nox4 was involved. Innovation and Conclusion: The study observations indicate that d-allulose contributes to the muscular glucose disposal in the diabetic state where ER-localized Nox4-induced IRE1α sulfonation results in the decay of Sirt1, a core factor for controlling glucose metabolism. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 37, 229-245.