---
reference_id: PMID:17956202
title: Drug evaluation of clopidogrel in patients with ischemic stroke.
authors:
- Hassan AE
- Zacharatos H
- Suri MF
- Qureshi AI
journal: Expert opinion on pharmacotherapy
year: '2007'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:41:28+00:00'
---

# Drug evaluation of clopidogrel in patients with ischemic stroke.
**Authors:** Hassan AE, Zacharatos H, Suri MF, Qureshi AI
**Journal:** Expert opinion on pharmacotherapy (2007)

## Content

Clopidogrel is an effective antiplatelet medication used for the secondary prevention of ischemic events in patients with various cardiovascular, cerebrovascular and peripheral vascular disease conditions. The objective of this paper is to discuss the role of clopidogrel in ischemic stroke patients and to review the existing data from randomized trials supplemented by pilot and mechanistic studies that supports these indications for its use. An analysis of the mechanism of action and pharmacology of clopidogrel is provided. After Phase III trials, such as the CAPRIE (Clopidogrel versus Aspirin in Patients at Risk of Ischemic Events) and MATCH (Management of Atherothrombosis with Clopidogrel in High-risk patients) trials, the role of clopidogrel in secondary prevention is well defined. The role of clopidogrel in acute ischemic stroke and neurointerventional procedures is evolving based on new pilot trials. At present, there is insufficient data to recommend the use of clopidogrel in acute ischemic stroke. Clopidogrel may be a valuable alternative to aspirin. However, more studies are required to assess the role of clopidogrel in selected patient groups with respect to acute ischemic stroke.