---
reference_id: PMID:17940711
title: TNF-alpha inhibitors in dermatology.
authors:
- Cordoro KM
- Feldman SR
journal: Skin therapy letter
year: '2007'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:57:54+00:00'
---

# TNF-alpha inhibitors in dermatology.
**Authors:** Cordoro KM, Feldman SR
**Journal:** Skin therapy letter (2007)

## Content

To date, the US FDA has approved three tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-a inhibitors for use in dermatology. Etanercept (Enbrel, Amgen-Wyeth), a fully human fusion protein of TNF receptor II bound to the Fc component of human IgG1, is approved for use in psoriasis (2004) and psoriatic arthritis (2002). Infliximab (Remicade, Centocor) is a chimeric monoclonal antibody that is approved for use in psoriasis (2006) and psoriatic arthritis (2005), and adalimumab (Humira, Abbott Laboratories), a fully human monoclonal antibody, is approved for use in psoriatic arthritis (2005). While data regarding the efficacy and safety of these therapies is abundant, it proves nearly impossible to objectively compare and contrast agents as there are no head-to-head trials. Clinical experience and post-marketing reporting has allowed dermatologists to identify the relative strengths and limitations of each agent. The well-founded enthusiasm for these agents, because of their excellent initial efficacy and safety profile, is reasonably tempered by concerns about declining efficacy over time, the risk of infection, lymphoma and demyelinating disorders, and cost. The distinct and targeted mechanism of action of the TNF inhibitors allows dermatologists to customize therapy to match the individual needs and characteristics of patients who are candidates for systemic or phototherapy.