---
reference_id: PMID:34198310
title: "Dolutegravir in Mexico for special populations: A cost analysis perspective."
authors:
- Marco B
- Cristina H
- Cristhian R
- Sigfrido R
- Del Angel J
- Reyes A
- Isidoro P
journal: AIDS reviews
year: '2021'
doi: 10.24875/AIDSRev.M21000042
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T19:03:23+00:00'
---

# Dolutegravir in Mexico for special populations: A cost analysis perspective.
**Authors:** Marco B, Cristina H, Cristhian R, Sigfrido R, Del Angel J, Reyes A, Isidoro P
**Journal:** AIDS reviews (2021)
**DOI:** [10.24875/AIDSRev.M21000042](https://doi.org/10.24875/AIDSRev.M21000042)

## Content

Integrase strand-transfer inhibitors (INSTI) are the latest class of antiretrovirals registered in Mexico. They include raltegravir (RAL), elvitegravir/cobicistat (EVG/c), dolutegravir (DTG) and bictegravir (BIC). Along with international guidelines, Mexico adopted the use of INSTI about two years ago as initial antiretroviral therapy (ART). This is partially due to the increase in the pre-treatment resistance to non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTI), mainly efavirenz (EFV). Furthermore, INSTI depict greater efficacy, safety and less drug-drug interactions than NNRTI and protease inhibitors (PI). DTG is a second generation INSTI with a high barrier to resistance. It is recommended in international and national guidelines in a wide variety of clinical scenarios for persons living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) (PLWHIV), including treatment-naïve, first-line NNRTI treatment failure, simplification switch in suppressed patients, pregnancy, women with childbearing potential, adolescents and children over 6 years of age. DTG is mostly metabolized by the liver UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, and exhibits low drug-drug interactions overall; on the other hand, it has an extremely low renal elimination, therefore may be used in PLWHIV with advanced kidney disease without dose modification. Tuberculosis is a common coinfection in Mexico that requires rifampin-based anti-tuberculosis therapy, which requires increasing DTG to double dosing (50 mg BID). In Mexico, DTG-based regimens are likely to be cost-effective in many scenarios, given its acquisition costs and the particularities of the HIV population and associated clinical conditions, including a relatively high proportion of the following: i) new HIV diagnoses presenting at acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) stage; ii) high rate of tuberculosis coinfection; iii) frequent first-line NNRTI treatment failures; and iv) relatively high proportion of infected children and adolescents.