---
reference_id: PMID:30580866
title: Sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibition for the reduction of cardiovascular events in high-risk patients with diabetes mellitus.
authors:
- Pancholia AK
journal: Indian heart journal
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1016/j.ihj.2018.08.022
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:11:05+00:00'
---

# Sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibition for the reduction of cardiovascular events in high-risk patients with diabetes mellitus.
**Authors:** Pancholia AK
**Journal:** Indian heart journal (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.ihj.2018.08.022](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ihj.2018.08.022)

## Content

Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) exhibit an increased risk for cardiovascular (CV) events. Hyperglycemia itself contributes to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and heart failure (HF) in these patients, but glucose-lowering strategies studied to date have had little or no impact on reducing CV risk, especially in patients with a long duration of T2DM and prevalent CV disease (CVD). Sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors are the new class of glucose-lowering medications that increase urinary glucose excretion, thus improving glycemic control, independent of insulin. The recently published CV outcome trial, Empagliflozin Cardiovascular Outcome Event Trial in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Patients-Removing Excess Glucose (EMPA-REG OUTCOME), demonstrated that the SGLT2 inhibitor empagliﬂozin signiﬁcantly reduced the combined CV end point of CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, and nonfatal stroke vs. placebo in a population of patients with T2DM and prevalent atherosclerotic CVD. In addition, and quite unexpectedly, empagliﬂozin signiﬁcantly and robustly reduced the individual end points of CV death, overall mortality, and hospitalization for HF in this high-risk population. Several beneficial factors beyond glucose control, such as weight loss, lowering blood pressure, sodium depletion, renal hemodynamic effects, effects on myocardial energetics, and/or neurohormonal effects, have been seen with SGLT2 inhibition.