---
reference_id: PMID:35883275
title: "Vitamin D: an essential adjuvant therapeutic agent in breast cancer."
authors:
- Thabet RH
- Gomaa AA
- Matalqah LM
- Shalaby EM
journal: The Journal of international medical research
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1177/03000605221113800
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:15:59+00:00'
---

# Vitamin D: an essential adjuvant therapeutic agent in breast cancer.
**Authors:** Thabet RH, Gomaa AA, Matalqah LM, Shalaby EM
**Journal:** The Journal of international medical research (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1177/03000605221113800](https://doi.org/10.1177/03000605221113800)

## Content

Low serum levels of vitamin D have been reported as a risk factor for breast cancer. This narrative review provides an update on the impact of vitamin D on hormone receptors, notably estrogen receptor subunits, and gives insights on possible therapeutic interventions to overcome breast cancer. In addition, evidence that supports the beneficial use of vitamin D as adjuvant treatment of breast cancer is summarized. Vitamin D deficiency is significantly widespread in patients with triple-negative tumors. Several studies have observed a possible modulatory effect of vitamin D or its analogues on the expression of different hormone receptors in breast cancer and increased sensitivity to tamoxifen. Vitamin D possesses anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects in patients with breast cancer, and the mechanism of action of vitamin D in patients with breast cancer is discussed. In conclusion, vitamin D appears to have a beneficial role in the prevention and management of breast cancer, however, large-scale, randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm the effects of vitamin D in breast cancer prevention or treatment.