---
reference_id: PMID:27026683
title: "In Vivo and In Vitro Characterization of Basal Insulin Peglispro: A Novel Insulin Analog."
authors:
- Owens RA
- Hansen RJ
- Kahl SD
- Zhang C
- Ruan X
- Koester A
- Li S
- Qian HR
- Farmen MW
- Michael MD
- Moyers JS
- Cutler GB
- Vick A
- Beals JM
journal: The Journal of pharmacology and experimental therapeutics
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1124/jpet.115.231035
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:39:48+00:00'
---

# In Vivo and In Vitro Characterization of Basal Insulin Peglispro: A Novel Insulin Analog.
**Authors:** Owens RA, Hansen RJ, Kahl SD, Zhang C, Ruan X, Koester A, Li S, Qian HR, Farmen MW, Michael MD, Moyers JS, Cutler GB, Vick A, Beals JM
**Journal:** The Journal of pharmacology and experimental therapeutics (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1124/jpet.115.231035](https://doi.org/10.1124/jpet.115.231035)

## Content

The aim of this research was to characterize the in vivo and in vitro properties of basal insulin peglispro (BIL), a new basal insulin, wherein insulin lispro was derivatized through the covalent and site-specific attachment of a 20-kDa polyethylene-glycol (PEG; specifically, methoxy-terminated) moiety to lysine B28. Addition of the PEG moiety increased the hydrodynamic size of the insulin lispro molecule. Studies show there is a prolonged duration of action and a reduction in clearance. Given the different physical properties of BIL, it was also important to assess the metabolic and mitogenic activity of the molecule. Streptozotocin (STZ)-treated diabetic rats were used to study the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics of BIL. Binding affinity and functional characterization of BIL were compared with those of several therapeutic insulins, insulin AspB10, and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). BIL exhibited a markedly longer time to maximum concentration after subcutaneous injection, a greater area under the concentration-time curve, and a longer duration of action in the STZ-treated diabetic rat than insulin lispro. BIL exhibited reduced binding affinity and functional potency as compared with insulin lispro and demonstrated greater selectivity for the human insulin receptor (hIR) as compared with the human insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor. Furthermore, BIL showed a more rapid rate of dephosphorylation following maximal hIR stimulation, and reduced mitogenic potential in an IGF-1 receptor-dominant cellular model. PEGylation of insulin lispro with a 20-kDa PEG moiety at lysine B28 alters the absorption, clearance, distribution, and activity profile receptor, but does not alter its selectivity and full agonist receptor properties.