---
reference_id: PMID:28860448
title: Expression of Thyroid Hormone Responsive SPOT 14 Gene Is Regulated by Estrogen in Chicken (Gallus gallus).
authors:
- Ren J
- Xu N
- Zheng H
- Tian W
- Li H
- Li Z
- Wang Y
- Tian Y
- Kang X
- Liu X
journal: Scientific reports
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-08452-6
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:08:07+00:00'
---

# Expression of Thyroid Hormone Responsive SPOT 14 Gene Is Regulated by Estrogen in Chicken (Gallus gallus).
**Authors:** Ren J, Xu N, Zheng H, Tian W, Li H, Li Z, Wang Y, Tian Y, Kang X, Liu X
**Journal:** Scientific reports (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41598-017-08452-6](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-08452-6)

## Content

Thyroid hormone responsive spot 14 (THRSP) is a small nuclear protein that responds rapidly to thyroid hormone. It has been shown that THRSP is abundant in lipogenic tissues such as liver, fat and the mammary gland in mammals. The THRSP gene acts as a key lipogenic activator and can be activated by thyroid hormone triiodothyronine (T3), glucose, carbohydrate and insulin. Here we report that chicken THRSP is also abundant in lipogenic tissues including the liver and the abdominal fat, and its expression levels increased with sex maturation and reached the highest level at the peak of egg production. Structure analysis of the THRSP gene indicates that there is a conscious estrogen response element (ERE) located in the -2390 - -2402 range of the gene promoter region. Further studies by ChIP-qPCR proved that the ERα interacts with the putative ERE site. In addition, THRSP was significantly upregulated (P < 0.05) when chickens or chicken primary hepatocytes were treated with 17β-estradiol in both the in vivo and in vitro conditions. We therefore conclude that THRSP is directly regulated by estrogen and is involved in the estrogen regulation network in chicken.