---
reference_id: PMID:34634381
title: "Genomic characterization of variants on mycolic acid metabolism genes in Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates from Santa Catarina, Southern Brazil."
authors:
- Medeiros TF
- Scheffer MC
- Verza M
- Salvato RS
- Schörner MA
- Barazzetti FH
- Rovaris DB
- Bazzo ML
journal: "Infection, genetics and evolution : journal of molecular epidemiology and evolutionary genetics in infectious diseases"
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1016/j.meegid.2021.105107
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:46:40+00:00'
---

# Genomic characterization of variants on mycolic acid metabolism genes in Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates from Santa Catarina, Southern Brazil.
**Authors:** Medeiros TF, Scheffer MC, Verza M, Salvato RS, Schörner MA, Barazzetti FH, Rovaris DB, Bazzo ML
**Journal:** Infection, genetics and evolution : journal of molecular epidemiology and evolutionary genetics in infectious diseases (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.meegid.2021.105107](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.meegid.2021.105107)

## Content

Mycobacterium tuberculosis has a complex cell wall containing mycolic acids (MA), which play an important role in pathogenesis, virulence, and survival by protecting the cell against harsh environments. Studies have shown that genes encoding enzymes involved in MA synthesis are essential to mycobacterial functionality. Here, we used whole-genome sequencing to evaluate mutations in genes related to MA metabolism in M. tuberculosis isolates from pulmonary tuberculosis patients of the Florianópolis Metropolitan Area, Santa Catarina, Brazil, and assessed associations with clinical, epidemiological, and genotypic data. The mutations Rv3057c Asp112Ala (104/151), Rv3720 His70Arg (104/151), and Rv3802c Val50Phe (105/151) were identified in about 69% of the isolates and were related to the LAM lineage. SIT 216/LAM5 (13.2%, 20/151) had the highest frequency and presented the mutations accD2 Lys23Glu, kasA Gly269Ser, mmaA4 Asn165Ser, otsB1 Asp617Asn, Rv3057c Asp112Ala, Rv3720 His70Arg, Rv3802c Val50Phe, and tgs4 Ala216Glu. All SIT 73/T isolates (6.6%, 10/151) showed a characteristic and exclusive gene mutation pattern: amiD Rv3376 3790075G > A, fbpA-aftB 4266941G > A, echA11 Asn220fs, and otsB2 Ser110Arg. SITs 20/LAM1, 64/LAM6, 50/H3, 137/X2, and 119/X1 were also related to specific mutations. SITs from the LAM lineage differed in mutation profile from those of the T, Haarlem, and X lineages. Isolates from patients who had treatment failure showed mutations that do not seem to have a pattern related to this outcome. It was possible to identify a broad repertoire of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in genes related to MA metabolism in M. tuberculosis isolates. This study also described, for the first time, the variability between different SITs/sublineages of Lineage 4 circulating in Florianópolis Metropolitan Area.