---
reference_id: PMID:32006266
title: Glucose Lowering Efficacy and Pleiotropic Effects of Sodium-Glucose Cotransporter 2 Inhibitors.
authors:
- Kuchay MS
- Farooqui KJ
- Mishra SK
- Mithal A
journal: Advances in experimental medicine and biology
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1007/5584_2020_479
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:11:26+00:00'
---

# Glucose Lowering Efficacy and Pleiotropic Effects of Sodium-Glucose Cotransporter 2 Inhibitors.
**Authors:** Kuchay MS, Farooqui KJ, Mishra SK, Mithal A
**Journal:** Advances in experimental medicine and biology (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1007/5584_2020_479](https://doi.org/10.1007/5584_2020_479)

## Content

In type 2 diabetes, the maladaptive upregulation of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) protein expression and activity contribute to the maintenance of hyperglycemia. By inhibiting these proteins, SGLT2 inhibitors increase urinary glucose excretion (UGE) that leads to fall in plasma glucose concentrations and improvement in all glycemic parameters. Clinical studies have demonstrated that in patients with type 2 diabetes, SGLT2 inhibitors resulted in sustained reductions in glycated hemoglobin (HbA1C), body weight, blood pressure and serum uric acid levels. Interestingly, the cardiovascular (CV) and renal outcome trials revealed the beneficial effects of SGLT2 inhibitors on CV and renal functions. Because the benefits were seen soon after initiation of SGLT2 inhibitors, these observations are explained by effects beyond their glucose lowering capacity. SGLT2 inhibitors also reduce liver fat in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and type 2 diabetes. This chapter describes the basic information about SGLT2 inhibitors, current status of SGLT2 inhibitors in the management of type 2 diabetes and their beneficial effects in addition to glycemic control.