---
reference_id: PMID:24075894
title: Role of oxidative stress in impaired insulin signaling associated with exercise-induced muscle damage.
authors:
- Aoi W
- Naito Y
- Yoshikawa T
journal: "Free radical biology & medicine"
year: '2013'
doi: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.09.014
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:40:39+00:00'
---

# Role of oxidative stress in impaired insulin signaling associated with exercise-induced muscle damage.
**Authors:** Aoi W, Naito Y, Yoshikawa T
**Journal:** Free radical biology & medicine (2013)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.09.014](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.09.014)

## Content

Skeletal muscle is a major tissue that utilizes blood glucose. A single bout of exercise improves glucose uptake in skeletal muscle through insulin-dependent and insulin-independent signal transduction mechanisms. However, glucose utilization is decreased in muscle damage induced by acute, unaccustomed, or eccentric exercise. The decrease in glucose utilization is caused by decreased insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in damaged muscles with inhibition of the membrane translocation of glucose transporter 4 through phosphatidyl 3-kinase/Akt signaling. In addition to inflammatory cytokines, reactive oxygen species including 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal and peroxynitrate can induce degradation or inactivation of signaling proteins through posttranslational modification, thereby resulting in a disturbance in insulin signal transduction. In contrast, treatment with factors that attenuate oxidative stress in damaged muscle suppresses the impairment of insulin sensitivity. Muscle-damaging exercise may thus lead to decreased endurance capacity and muscle fatigue in exercise, and it may decrease the efficiency of exercise therapy for metabolic improvement.