---
reference_id: PMID:30718702
title: Apolipoprotein A-I enhances insulin-dependent and insulin-independent glucose uptake by skeletal muscle.
authors:
- Tang S
- Tabet F
- Cochran BJ
- Cuesta Torres LF
- Wu BJ
- Barter PJ
- Rye KA
journal: Scientific reports
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-38014-3
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:41:16+00:00'
---

# Apolipoprotein A-I enhances insulin-dependent and insulin-independent glucose uptake by skeletal muscle.
**Authors:** Tang S, Tabet F, Cochran BJ, Cuesta Torres LF, Wu BJ, Barter PJ, Rye KA
**Journal:** Scientific reports (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41598-018-38014-3](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-38014-3)

## Content

Therapeutic interventions that increase plasma high density lipoprotein (HDL) and apolipoprotein (apo) A-I levels have been reported to reduce plasma glucose levels and attenuate insulin resistance. The present study asks if this is a direct effect of increased glucose uptake by skeletal muscle. Incubation of primary human skeletal muscle cells (HSKMCs) with apoA-I increased insulin-dependent and insulin-independent glucose uptake in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. The increased glucose uptake was accompanied by enhanced phosphorylation of the insulin receptor (IR), insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1), the serine/threonine kinase Akt and Akt substrate of 160 kDa (AS160). Cell surface levels of the glucose transporter type 4, GLUT4, were also increased. The apoA-I-mediated increase in glucose uptake by HSKMCs was dependent on phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt, the ATP binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) and scavenger receptor class B type I (SR-B1). Taken together, these results establish that apoA-I increases glucose disposal in skeletal muscle by activating the IR/IRS-1/PI3K/Akt/AS160 signal transduction pathway. The findings suggest that therapeutic agents that increase apoA-I levels may improve glycemic control in people with type 2 diabetes.