---
reference_id: PMID:39051334
title: A Comparison of Natural and Therapeutic Anti-IgE Antibodies.
authors:
- Vogel M
- Engeroff P
journal: "Antibodies (Basel, Switzerland)"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.3390/antib13030058
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:42:11+00:00'
---

# A Comparison of Natural and Therapeutic Anti-IgE Antibodies.
**Authors:** Vogel M, Engeroff P
**Journal:** Antibodies (Basel, Switzerland) (2024)
**DOI:** [10.3390/antib13030058](https://doi.org/10.3390/antib13030058)

## Content

Immunoglobulin E (IgE) plays a critical role for the immune system, fighting against parasites, toxins, and cancer. However, when it reacts to allergens without proper regulation, it can cause allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis, through a process initiated by effector cells such as basophils and mast cells. These cells display IgE on their surface, bound to the high-affinity IgE receptor FcεRI. A cross-linking antigen then triggers degranulation and the release of inflammatory mediators from the cells. Therapeutic monoclonal anti-IgE antibodies such as omalizumab, disrupt this process and are used to manage IgE-related conditions such as severe allergic asthma and chronic spontaneous urticaria. Interestingly, naturally occurring anti-IgE autoantibodies circulate at surprisingly high levels in healthy humans and mice and may thus be instrumental in regulating IgE activity. Although many open questions remain, recent studies have shed new light on their role as IgE regulators and their mechanism of action. Here, we summarize the latest insights on natural anti-IgE autoantibodies, and we compare their functional features to therapeutic monoclonal anti-IgE autoantibodies.