---
reference_id: PMID:25801935
title: Synthesis of the alkylated active metabolite of tipidogrel.
authors:
- Zhi S
- Xia G
- Liu Y
- Tao Z
- Chen L
- Liu D
journal: "Bioorganic & medicinal chemistry letters"
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2015.02.072
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:41:37+00:00'
---

# Synthesis of the alkylated active metabolite of tipidogrel.
**Authors:** Zhi S, Xia G, Liu Y, Tao Z, Chen L, Liu D
**Journal:** Bioorganic & medicinal chemistry letters (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.bmcl.2015.02.072](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bmcl.2015.02.072)

## Content

Tipidogrel (3), an effective anti-platelet drug candidate working by irreversibly inhibiting P2Y12 receptor, holds great promise in overcoming clopidogrel resistance and increasing bioavailability. As a prodrug like other thienopyridines, it metabolizes through thiophene ring opening to form active metabolites 3a and 3b, nevertheless they are easily to form disulfide bond. Derivatization of 3a and 3b via alkylation with MPBr can prevent disulfide conjugation and ensure reliable pharmacokinetic results. Thus, in order to support its pre-clinical studies on efficiencies in the formation of tipidogrel active metabolites, 13a and 13b were synthesized via seven steps of chemosynthesis and incubation with MPBr in rat plasma in vitro. The resulting crude productions were purified by semi-preparative HPLC to give Z configuration 13a and E configuration 13b. In LC-MS/MS spectra, they showed identical fragmentation pattern and retention time with M-13a and M-13b, the MPBr-derivatives of active metabolites of tipidogrel in rats. Thus, 13a and 13b were the anticipated alkylated active metabolite of tipidogrel. In addition, in the nucleophilic substitution of thioacetate with compound 11, besides the anticipated compounds 12a and 12b, their isomers compounds 12c and 12d were detected, whose structures were confirmed and the corresponding mechanism was presented.