---
reference_id: PMID:19110389
title: "[Variable platelet response to aspirin and new therapeutic targets]."
authors:
- Richard S
- Toussaint-Hacquard M
- Lecompte T
journal: Journal des maladies vasculaires
year: '2009'
doi: 10.1016/j.jmv.2008.10.009
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:01:40+00:00'
---

# [Variable platelet response to aspirin and new therapeutic targets].
**Authors:** Richard S, Toussaint-Hacquard M, Lecompte T
**Journal:** Journal des maladies vasculaires (2009)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jmv.2008.10.009](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmv.2008.10.009)

## Content

Aspirin is the first-line oral antiplatelet drug to prevent thromboembolic arterial occlusions. Aspirin irreversibly inhibits cyclooxygenase (COX) 1 involved in the platelet production of thromboxane (TX) A(2), an inducer of vasoconstriction and a platelet activating agent. Recurrent vascular events despite aspirin intake, combined with laboratory evidence of poor antiplatelet effect, suggested what has been called "aspirin resistance". For clarity's sake a real aspirin resistance would be the absence of COX1 inhibition due to intrinsic platelet factors (which has never been reported). What has been described is (expected) variability. COX1 inhibition can be insufficient to modify TX-dependent platelet behaviour. Other agonists, the production of which does not involve COX1, can stimulate TX-receptors. The antiplatelet effect of aspirin can be insufficient for pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic reasons, the latter being further classified as TX-dependent or not. If platelets are so reactive that responses are more TX-independent than normally, then neither aspirin nor any drugs acting on this pathway can do the job. These mechanisms should be better understood and diagnosed, and this is the prerequisite for the development of newer antiplatelet agents.