---
reference_id: PMID:28844711
title: "Novel flexible heteroarotinoid, SL-1-18, promotes ERα degradation to inhibit breast cancer cell growth."
authors:
- Fallatah MM
- Liu S
- Sevigny MB
- Zou H
- Louie MC
journal: Cancer letters
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2017.08.026
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:16:52+00:00'
---

# Novel flexible heteroarotinoid, SL-1-18, promotes ERα degradation to inhibit breast cancer cell growth.
**Authors:** Fallatah MM, Liu S, Sevigny MB, Zou H, Louie MC
**Journal:** Cancer letters (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.canlet.2017.08.026](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.canlet.2017.08.026)

## Content

SL-1-18 (1-(chrysen-6-yl)-3-(4-nitrophenyl)thiourea) is new flexible heteroarotinoid (Flex-Het) analog derived from the parent compound, SHetA2, and our previous study showed comparable activity to SHetA2 in terms of inhibiting ER+ breast cancer cell growth. This current study aims to determine the molecular mechanism underlying SL-1-18's effect on breast cancer cell growth. Our results indicate that SL-1-18 inhibits cell proliferation of ER+ breast cancer cells (MCF-7 and T-47D) by preventing cell cycle progression. SL-1-18 treatment correlated positively with decreased expression of key cell-cycle regulators, such as cyclin D1, as well as other ERα-target genes at both the transcript and protein levels. Interestingly, decreased expression of ERα was also observed, with a significant reduction at the protein level within 2 h of SL-1-18 treatment, while the decrease in mRNA occurred at a later time point. ERα degradation was shown to be mediated by the ubiquitination-proteasome pathway. In summary, this is the first study to show that a Flex-Het- SL-1-18- can promote the degradation of ERα via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway and should be further developed as a therapeutic option for ER+ breast cancer.