---
reference_id: PMID:24776844
title: Associations between functional polymorphisms in the NFκB signaling pathway and response to anti-TNF treatment in Danish patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
authors:
- Bank S
- Andersen PS
- Burisch J
- Pedersen N
- Roug S
- Galsgaard J
- Turino SY
- Brodersen JB
- Rashid S
- Rasmussen BK
- Avlund S
- Olesen TB
- Hoffmann HJ
- Thomsen MK
- Thomsen VØ
- Frydenberg M
- Nexø BA
- Sode J
- Vogel U
- Andersen V
journal: The pharmacogenomics journal
year: '2014'
doi: 10.1038/tpj.2014.19
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:48:55+00:00'
---

# Associations between functional polymorphisms in the NFκB signaling pathway and response to anti-TNF treatment in Danish patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
**Authors:** Bank S, Andersen PS, Burisch J, Pedersen N, Roug S, Galsgaard J, Turino SY, Brodersen JB, Rashid S, Rasmussen BK, Avlund S, Olesen TB, Hoffmann HJ, Thomsen MK, Thomsen VØ, Frydenberg M, Nexø BA, Sode J, Vogel U, Andersen V
**Journal:** The pharmacogenomics journal (2014)
**DOI:** [10.1038/tpj.2014.19](https://doi.org/10.1038/tpj.2014.19)

## Content

Antitumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) is used for treatment of severe cases of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), including Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). However, one-third of the patients do not respond to the treatment. Genetic markers may predict individual response to anti-TNF therapy. Using a candidate gene approach, 39 mainly functional single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 26 genes regulating inflammation were assessed in 738 prior anti-TNF-naive Danish patients with IBD. The results were analyzed using logistic regression (crude and adjusted for age, gender and smoking status). Nineteen functional polymorphisms that alter the NFκB-mediated inflammatory response (TLR2 (rs3804099, rs11938228, rs1816702, rs4696480), TLR4 (rs5030728, rs1554973), TLR9 (rs187084, rs352139), LY96 (MD-2) (rs11465996), CD14 (rs2569190), MAP3K14 (NIK) (rs7222094)), TNF-α signaling (TNFA (TNF-α) (rs361525), TNFRSF1A (TNFR1) (rs4149570), TNFAIP3(A20) (rs6927172)) and other cytokines regulated by NFκB (IL1B (rs4848306), IL1RN (rs4251961), IL6 (rs10499563), IL17A (rs2275913), IFNG (rs2430561)) were associated with response to anti-TNF therapy among patients with CD, UC or both CD and UC (P ⩽ 0.05). In conclusion, the results suggest that polymorphisms in genes involved in activating NFκB through the Toll-like receptor (TLR) pathways, genes regulating TNF-α signaling and cytokines regulated by NFκB are important predictors for the response to anti-TNF therapy among patients with IBD. Genetically strong TNF-mediated inflammatory response was associated with beneficial response. In addition, the cytokines IL-1β, IL-6 and IFN-γ may be potential targets for treating patients with IBD who do not respond to anti-TNF therapy. These findings should be examined in independent cohorts before these results are applied in a clinical setting.