---
reference_id: PMID:9717988
title: "Preclinical cellular pharmacology of LY231514 (MTA): a comparison with methotrexate, LY309887 and raltitrexed for their effects on intracellular folate and nucleoside triphosphate pools in CCRF-CEM cells."
authors:
- Chen VJ
- Bewley JR
- Andis SL
- Schultz RM
- Iversen PW
- Shih C
- Mendelsohn LG
- Seitz DE
- Tonkinson JL
journal: British journal of cancer
year: '1998'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:25:44+00:00'
---

# Preclinical cellular pharmacology of LY231514 (MTA): a comparison with methotrexate, LY309887 and raltitrexed for their effects on intracellular folate and nucleoside triphosphate pools in CCRF-CEM cells.
**Authors:** Chen VJ, Bewley JR, Andis SL, Schultz RM, Iversen PW, Shih C, Mendelsohn LG, Seitz DE, Tonkinson JL
**Journal:** British journal of cancer (1998)

## Content

LY231514 (N-[4-[2-(2-amino-3,4-dihydro-4-oxo-7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-5-yl)ethy l]-benzoyl]-L-glutamic acid) is a new folate-based antimetabolite currently in broad phase II clinical evaluation. Previous in vitro studies (C. Shih et al, CancerRes 57: 1116-1123, 1997) have suggested that LY231514 could be a multitargeted antifolate (MTA) capable of inhibiting thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) and glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase (GARFT). The present study compared LY231514 with methotrexate, raltitrexed and a glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase inhibitor, LY309887, at 300, 100, 30 and 100 nM, respectively, for their effects on intracellular folate and at 100, 66, 20 and 30 nM respectively, for their effects on nucleoside triphosphate pools in CCRF-CEM cells. Methotrexate induced an accumulation of dihydrofolate species, together with a rapid depletion of ATP, GTP and all of the deoxynucleoside triphosphates. LY309887 caused an accumulation of 10-formyltetrahydrofolate, a rapid loss of ATP, GTP and dATP, but a slower loss in dCTP, dTTP and dGTP. Both LY231514 and raltitrexed had minimal effects on folate pools. In contrast, they caused rapid depletion of dTTP, dCTP and dGTP, but induced an accumulation of dATP at different rates, with raltitrexed doing so about 2.5 times faster. Most of the observed metabolic changes could be understood on the basis of current knowledge of folate and nucleotide metabolism. We concluded that LY231514 was distinct from methotrexate, LY309887 and raltitrexed based on their metabolic effects in CCRF-CEM cells, and that in this cell line the inhibitory effects of LY231514 were exerted primarily against the thymidylate cycle and secondarily against de novo purine biosynthesis.