---
reference_id: PMID:34795269
title: HER2 + breast cancers evade anti-HER2 therapy via a switch in driver pathway.
authors:
- Smith AE
- Ferraro E
- Safonov A
- Morales CB
- Lahuerta EJA
- Li Q
- Kulick A
- Ross D
- Solit DB
- de Stanchina E
- Reis-Filho J
- Rosen N
- Arribas J
- Razavi P
- Chandarlapaty S
journal: Nature communications
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1038/s41467-021-27093-y
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:44:20+00:00'
---

# HER2 + breast cancers evade anti-HER2 therapy via a switch in driver pathway.
**Authors:** Smith AE, Ferraro E, Safonov A, Morales CB, Lahuerta EJA, Li Q, Kulick A, Ross D, Solit DB, de Stanchina E, Reis-Filho J, Rosen N, Arribas J, Razavi P, Chandarlapaty S
**Journal:** Nature communications (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41467-021-27093-y](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-27093-y)

## Content

Inhibition of HER2 in HER2-amplified breast cancer has been remarkably successful clinically, as demonstrated by the efficacy of HER-kinase inhibitors and HER2-antibody treatments. Whilst resistance to HER2 inhibition is common in the metastatic setting, the specific programs downstream of HER2 driving resistance are not established. Through genomic profiling of 733 HER2-amplified breast cancers, we identify enrichment of somatic alterations that promote MEK/ERK signaling in metastatic tumors with shortened progression-free survival on anti-HER2 therapy. These mutations, including NF1 loss and ERBB2 activating mutations, are sufficient to mediate resistance to FDA-approved HER2 kinase inhibitors including tucatinib and neratinib. Moreover, resistant tumors lose AKT dependence while undergoing a dramatic sensitization to MEK/ERK inhibition. Mechanistically, this driver pathway switch is a result of MEK-dependent activation of CDK2 kinase. These results establish genetic activation of MAPK as a recurrent mechanism of anti-HER2 therapy resistance that may be effectively combated with MEK/ERK inhibitors.