---
reference_id: PMID:25503779
title: HDAC inhibition does not induce estrogen receptor in human triple-negative breast cancer cell lines and patient-derived xenografts.
authors:
- de Cremoux P
- Dalvai M
- "N'Doye O"
- Moutahir F
- Rolland G
- Chouchane-Mlik O
- Assayag F
- Lehmann-Che J
- Kraus-Berthie L
- Nicolas A
- Lockhart BP
- Marangoni E
- de Thé H
- Depil S
- Bystricky K
- Decaudin D
journal: Breast cancer research and treatment
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1007/s10549-014-3233-y
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:18:01+00:00'
---

# HDAC inhibition does not induce estrogen receptor in human triple-negative breast cancer cell lines and patient-derived xenografts.
**Authors:** de Cremoux P, Dalvai M, N'Doye O, Moutahir F, Rolland G, Chouchane-Mlik O, Assayag F, Lehmann-Che J, Kraus-Berthie L, Nicolas A, Lockhart BP, Marangoni E, de Thé H, Depil S, Bystricky K, Decaudin D
**Journal:** Breast cancer research and treatment (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s10549-014-3233-y](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10549-014-3233-y)

## Content

Several publications have suggested that histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACis) could reverse the repression of estrogen receptor alpha (ERα) in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cell lines, leading to the induction of a functional protein. Using different HDACis, vorinostat, panobinostat, and abexinostat, we therefore investigated this hypothesis in various human TNBC cell lines and patient-derived xenografts (PDXs). We used three human TNBC cell lines and three PDXs. We analyzed the in vitro toxicity of the compounds, their effects on the hormone receptors and hormone-related genes and protein expression both in vitro and in vivo models. We then explored intra-tumor histone H3 acetylation under abexinostat in xenograft models. Despite major cytotoxicity of all tested HDAC inhibitors and repression of deactylation-dependent CCND1 gene, neither ERα nor ERβ, ESR1 or ESR2 genes respectively, were re-expressed in vitro. In vivo, after administration of abexinostat for three consecutive days, we did not observe any induction of ESR1 or ESR1-related genes and ERα protein expression by RT-qPCR and immunohistochemical methods in PDXs. This observation was concomitant to the fact that in vivo administration of abexinostat increased intra-tumor histone H3 acetylation. These observations do not allow us to confirm previous studies which suggested that HDACis are able to convert ER-negative (ER-) tumors to ER-positive (ER+) tumors, and that a combination of HDAC inhibitors and hormone therapy could be proposed in the management of TNBC patients.