---
reference_id: PMID:27371897
title: "Protective effects of MCR-1329, a dual α1 and angII receptor antagonist, in mineralocorticoid-induced hypertension."
authors:
- Gandhi H
- Naik P
- Agrawal N
- Yadav M
journal: "Pharmacological reports : PR"
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1016/j.pharep.2016.05.004
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:07:28+00:00'
---

# Protective effects of MCR-1329, a dual α1 and angII receptor antagonist, in mineralocorticoid-induced hypertension.
**Authors:** Gandhi H, Naik P, Agrawal N, Yadav M
**Journal:** Pharmacological reports : PR (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.pharep.2016.05.004](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pharep.2016.05.004)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** With the prototypical structures of losartan and prazosin as the axis of our research, MCR-1329 emerged as a potential designed multiple ligand from a series of compounds designed to possess dual antagonistic activity on the α1 and AT1 receptor. After confirming the activity of MCR-1329 in in vitro and acute in vivo models, the present study was undertaken to determine the efficacy of MCR-1329 in a mammalian test system.

**METHODS:** A rat model of deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt induced renal hypertension following unilateral nephrectomy was utilized to determine the effect of MCR-1329. For mechanistic evaluations, MCR-1329 was evaluated on rat aortic strips in vitro and on rat aortic smooth muscle cells to determine the role of MCR-1329 on phosphoinositide 3 kinase (PI3K) signaling.

**RESULTS:** Results of the study showed that MCR-1329 prevents development of arterial hypertension. It was also observed that MCR-1329 upheld the intimal structures of major arteries like the thoracic aorta. Acetylcholine (Ach)-mediated relaxation remained intact in arteries from MCR-1329 treated animals. It was observed that MCR-1329 partially prevents Thr-308 phosphorylation of Akt following ligand-mediated receptor stimulation in vascular smooth muscle cells. Addition of LY294002 to the reaction medium caused a near-complete inhibition of Akt-phosphorylation. This suggested that MCR-1329 elicits its antihypertensive role by blocking activation of receptor-mediated PI3K-Akt downstream signaling as well as through preservation of arterial integrity.

**CONCLUSIONS:** MCR-1329 has the potential to be evaluated further for clinical development as a potential antihypertensive agent with multiple mechanisms of action.