---
reference_id: PMID:25866780
title: In vivo evaluation of TNF-alpha in the lungs of patients affected by sarcoidosis.
authors:
- Galli F
- Lanzolla T
- Pietrangeli V
- Malviya G
- Ricci A
- Bruno P
- Ragni P
- Scopinaro F
- Mariotta S
- Signore A
journal: BioMed research international
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1155/2015/401341
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:50:33+00:00'
---

# In vivo evaluation of TNF-alpha in the lungs of patients affected by sarcoidosis.
**Authors:** Galli F, Lanzolla T, Pietrangeli V, Malviya G, Ricci A, Bruno P, Ragni P, Scopinaro F, Mariotta S, Signore A
**Journal:** BioMed research international (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1155/2015/401341](https://doi.org/10.1155/2015/401341)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** Sarcoidosis is a multisystemic granulomatous disorder characterized by multiple noncaseating granulomas involving intrathoracic lymph nodes and lung parenchyma. Recently, the use of anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha (anti-TNFα) agents has been introduced for therapy of chronic and refractory sarcoidosis with controversial results. Infliximab (Remicade) is a chimeric monoclonal antibody (mAb) that recognizes and binds TNFα, neutralizing its biological effects. In the present study,   (99m)Tc labelled infliximab was used to study the expression of TNFα in sarcoid lesions and to evaluate its role as a predictive marker in response to therapy with Remicade.

**MATERIAL AND METHODS:** A total of 10 patients with newly diagnosed sarcoidosis were enrolled together with 10 control patients affected by rheumatoid arthritis. All patients were studied by planar imaging of the chest with   (99m)Tc-infliximab at 6 h and 24 h and total body [(18)F]-FDG PET/CT. Regions of interest were drawn over the lungs and the right arm and target-to-background ratios were analysed for   (99m)Tc-infliximab. SUV mean and SUV max were calculated over lungs for FDG.

**RESULTS AND DISCUSSION:** Image analysis showed low correlation between T/B ratios and BAL results in patients despite positivity at [(18)F]-FDG PET.

**CONCLUSION:** In conclusion, patients with newly diagnosed pulmonary sarcoidosis, with FDG-PET and BAL positivity, showed a negative   (99m)Tc-infliximab scintigraphy.