---
reference_id: PMID:35313299
title: MiR-199a-3p Overexpression Suppressed Cell Proliferation and Sensitized Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia Cells to Imatinib by Inhibiting mTOR Signalling.
authors:
- Liu X
- Cui MM
- Zhu HZ
- Fu PY
- Wang GC
- Huang L
journal: Acta haematologica
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1159/000524158
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:19:45+00:00'
---

# MiR-199a-3p Overexpression Suppressed Cell Proliferation and Sensitized Chronic Myeloid Leukaemia Cells to Imatinib by Inhibiting mTOR Signalling.
**Authors:** Liu X, Cui MM, Zhu HZ, Fu PY, Wang GC, Huang L
**Journal:** Acta haematologica (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1159/000524158](https://doi.org/10.1159/000524158)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) is a myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by constitutive activity of the tyrosine kinase BCR-ABL1. Drug resistance remains one of the major challenges in CML therapy. MicroRNA (miR)-199a-3p plays an important role in many tumours but has rarely been investigated in CML. We aimed to analyse the role and mechanism of miR-199a-3p in regulating imatinib resistance in CML.

**METHODS:** The expression of miR-199a-3p and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) in the serum of CML patients and CML cells was examined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The levels of apoptosis-related proteins were determined using western blot. The relative cell survival rate and cell proliferation were determined using a CCK-8 assay and a bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) assay, respectively. Cell cycle and apoptosis were analysed using flow cytometry. Moreover, a dual-luciferase reporter assay was performed to verify the correlation between miR-199a-3p and mTOR.

**RESULTS:** MiR-199a-3p was downregulated in the serum of CML patients and in CML cells, while mTOR was upregulated. Both miR-199a-3p overexpression and mTOR silencing inhibited CML cell proliferation, promoted CML cell apoptosis, and sensitized these cells to imatinib. mTOR silencing reversed the promoting effect of miR-199a-3p inhibition on the proliferation of CML cells and the inhibitory effects on cell apoptosis and sensitivity to imatinib. MiR-199a-3p directly targeted mTOR.

**CONCLUSION:** MiR-199a-3p suppressed cell propagation, facilitated apoptosis of CML cells, and sensitized CML cells to imatinib by downregulating mTOR signalling.