---
reference_id: PMID:31828139
title: Atorvastatin Improves Hepatic Lipid Metabolism and Protects Renal Damage in Adenine-Induced Chronic Kidney Disease in Sprague-Dawley Rats.
authors:
- Ghelani H
- Razmovski-Naumovski V
- Inampudi V
- Chang D
- Nammi S
journal: BioMed research international
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1155/2019/8714363
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:36:32+00:00'
---

# Atorvastatin Improves Hepatic Lipid Metabolism and Protects Renal Damage in Adenine-Induced Chronic Kidney Disease in Sprague-Dawley Rats.
**Authors:** Ghelani H, Razmovski-Naumovski V, Inampudi V, Chang D, Nammi S
**Journal:** BioMed research international (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1155/2019/8714363](https://doi.org/10.1155/2019/8714363)

## Content

**OBJECTIVE:** Chronic kidney disease (CKD), including nephrotic syndrome, is a major cause of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The literature indicates that CKD is associated with profound lipid disorders largely due to the dysregulation of lipoprotein metabolism which further aggravates the progression of kidney disease. The present study sought to determine the efficacy of atorvastatin treatment on hepatic lipid metabolism and renal tissue damage in CKD rats.

**METHODS:** Serum, hepatic and faecal lipid contents and the expression and enzyme activity of molecules involved in cholesterol and triglyceride metabolism, along with kidney function, were determined in untreated adenine-induced CKD, atorvastatin-treated CKD (10 mg/kg/day oral for 24 days) and control rats.

**KEY FINDINGS:** CKD resulted in metabolic dyslipidaemia, renal insufficiency, hepatic lipid accumulation, upregulation of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, acyl-CoA cholesterol acyltransferase-2 (ACAT2) and the downregulation of LDL receptor protein, VLDL receptor, hepatic lipase, lipoprotein lipase (LPL), lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) and scavenger receptor class B type 1 (SR-B1). CKD also resulted in increased enzymatic activity of HMG-CoA reductase and ACAT2 together with decreased enzyme activity of lipase and LCAT. Atorvastatin therapy attenuated dyslipidaemia, renal insufficiency, reduced hepatic lipids, HMG-CoA reductase and ACAT2 protein abundance and raised LDL receptor and lipase protein expression. Atorvastatin therapy decreased the enzymatic activity of HMG-CoA reductase and increased enzymatic activity of lipase and LCAT.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Atorvastatin improved hepatic tissue lipid metabolism and renal function in adenine-induced CKD rats.