---
reference_id: PMID:30235352
title: Promyelocytic leukemia (PML) nuclear bodies (NBs) induce latent/quiescent HSV-1 genomes chromatinization through a PML NB/Histone H3.3/H3.3 Chaperone Axis.
authors:
- Cohen C
- Corpet A
- Roubille S
- Maroui MA
- Poccardi N
- Rousseau A
- Kleijwegt C
- Binda O
- Texier P
- Sawtell N
- Labetoulle M
- Lomonte P
journal: PLoS pathogens
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007313
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:02:07+00:00'
---

# Promyelocytic leukemia (PML) nuclear bodies (NBs) induce latent/quiescent HSV-1 genomes chromatinization through a PML NB/Histone H3.3/H3.3 Chaperone Axis.
**Authors:** Cohen C, Corpet A, Roubille S, Maroui MA, Poccardi N, Rousseau A, Kleijwegt C, Binda O, Texier P, Sawtell N, Labetoulle M, Lomonte P
**Journal:** PLoS pathogens (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1371/journal.ppat.1007313](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.ppat.1007313)

## Content

Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) latency establishment is tightly controlled by promyelocytic leukemia (PML) nuclear bodies (NBs) (or ND10), although their exact contribution is still elusive. A hallmark of HSV-1 latency is the interaction between latent viral genomes and PML NBs, leading to the formation of viral DNA-containing PML NBs (vDCP NBs), and the complete silencing of HSV-1. Using a replication-defective HSV-1-infected human primary fibroblast model reproducing the formation of vDCP NBs, combined with an immuno-FISH approach developed to detect latent/quiescent HSV-1, we show that vDCP NBs contain both histone H3.3 and its chaperone complexes, i.e., DAXX/ATRX and HIRA complex (HIRA, UBN1, CABIN1, and ASF1a). HIRA also co-localizes with vDCP NBs present in trigeminal ganglia (TG) neurons from HSV-1-infected wild type mice. ChIP and Re-ChIP show that vDCP NBs-associated latent/quiescent viral genomes are chromatinized almost exclusively with H3.3 modified on its lysine (K) 9 by trimethylation, consistent with an interaction of the H3.3 chaperones with multiple viral loci and with the transcriptional silencing of HSV-1. Only simultaneous inactivation of both H3.3 chaperone complexes has a significant impact on the deposition of H3.3 on viral genomes, suggesting a compensation mechanism. In contrast, the sole depletion of PML significantly impacts the chromatinization of the latent/quiescent viral genomes with H3.3 without any overall replacement with H3.1. vDCP NBs-associated HSV-1 genomes are not definitively silenced since the destabilization of vDCP NBs by ICP0, which is essential for HSV-1 reactivation in vivo, allows the recovery of a transcriptional lytic program and the replication of viral genomes. Consequently, the present study demonstrates a specific chromatin regulation of vDCP NBs-associated latent/quiescent HSV-1 through an H3.3-dependent HSV-1 chromatinization involving the two H3.3 chaperones DAXX/ATRX and HIRA complexes. Additionally, the study reveals that PML NBs are major actors in latent/quiescent HSV-1 H3.3 chromatinization through a PML NB/histone H3.3/H3.3 chaperone axis.