---
reference_id: PMID:25757657
title: Pharmacodynamic effects of C-domain-specific ACE inhibitors on the renin-angiotensin system in myocardial infarcted rats.
authors:
- Sharp S
- Poglitsch M
- Zilla P
- Davies NH
- Sturrock ED
journal: "Journal of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system : JRAAS"
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1177/1470320314568438
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:06:47+00:00'
---

# Pharmacodynamic effects of C-domain-specific ACE inhibitors on the renin-angiotensin system in myocardial infarcted rats.
**Authors:** Sharp S, Poglitsch M, Zilla P, Davies NH, Sturrock ED
**Journal:** Journal of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system : JRAAS (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1177/1470320314568438](https://doi.org/10.1177/1470320314568438)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is a dynamic network that plays a critical role in blood pressure regulation and fluid and electrolyte homeostasis. Modulators of the RAS, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, are widely used to treat hypertension, heart failure and myocardial infarction.

**METHODS:** The effect of ACE inhibitors (lisinopril and C-domain-selective LisW-S) on the constituent peptides of the RAS following myocardial infarction was examined in rats. Ten angiotensin peptides were analysed using a sensitive LC-MS/MS-based assay to examine both the circulating and equilibrium levels of these peptides.

**RESULTS:** Administration of lisinopril or LisW-S caused a significant decrease in Ang 1-8/Ang 1-10 ratios as determined by circulating and equilibrium peptide level analysis. Furthermore, Ang 1-7 levels were elevated by both ACE inhibitors, but only lisinopril decreased the Ang 1-5/Ang 1-7 ratio. This indicates LisW-S C-domain specificity as Ang 1-5 is generated by hydrolysis of Ang 1-7 by the N-domain. Further corroboration of LisW-S C-domain specificity is that only lisinopril increased the circulating levels of the N-domain ACE substrate Ac-SDKP.

**CONCLUSION:** LisW-S is able to effectively block ACE in vivo by C-domain-selective inhibition. The LC-MS/MS-based assay allows the evaluation of the pharmacologic impact of RAS inhibitors in different pathophysiological conditions.