---
reference_id: PMID:12070228
title: "Invited review: effect of acute exercise on insulin signaling and action in humans."
authors:
- Wojtaszewski JF
- Nielsen JN
- Richter EA
journal: "Journal of applied physiology (Bethesda, Md. : 1985)"
year: '2002'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:04:21+00:00'
---

# Invited review: effect of acute exercise on insulin signaling and action in humans.
**Authors:** Wojtaszewski JF, Nielsen JN, Richter EA
**Journal:** Journal of applied physiology (Bethesda, Md. : 1985) (2002)

## Content

After a single bout of exercise, insulin action is increased in the muscles that were active during exercise. The increased insulin action has been shown to involve glucose transport, glycogen synthesis, and glycogen synthase (GS) activation as well as amino acid transport. A major mechanism involved in increased insulin stimulation of glucose uptake after exercise seems to be the exercise-associated decrease in muscle glycogen content. Muscle glycogen content also plays a pivotal role for the activity of GS and for the ability of insulin to increase GS activity. Insulin signaling in human skeletal muscle is activated by physiological insulin concentrations, but the increase in insulin action after exercise does not seem to be related to increased insulin signaling [insulin receptor tyrosine kinase activity, insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) tyrosine phosphorylation (RS1), IRS-1-associated phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity, Akt phosphorylation (Ser(473)), glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) phosphorylation (Ser(21)), and GSK3alpha activity], as measured in muscle lysates. Furthermore, insulin signaling is also largely unaffected by exercise itself. This, however, does not preclude that exercise influences insulin signaling through changes in the spatial arrangement of the signaling compounds or by affecting unidentified signaling intermediates. Finally, 5'-AMP-activated protein kinase has recently entered the stage as a promising player in explaining at least a part of the mechanism by which exercise enhances insulin action.