---
reference_id: PMID:33761305
title: NMI Facilitates Influenza A Virus Infection by Promoting Degradation of IRF7 through TRIM21.
authors:
- Ouyang W
- Cen M
- Yang L
- Zhang W
- Xia J
- Xu F
journal: American journal of respiratory cell and molecular biology
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1165/rcmb.2020-0391OC
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:56:35+00:00'
---

# NMI Facilitates Influenza A Virus Infection by Promoting Degradation of IRF7 through TRIM21.
**Authors:** Ouyang W, Cen M, Yang L, Zhang W, Xia J, Xu F
**Journal:** American journal of respiratory cell and molecular biology (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1165/rcmb.2020-0391OC](https://doi.org/10.1165/rcmb.2020-0391OC)

## Content

Acute respiratory infections caused by influenza A virus (IAV) spread widely and lead to substantial morbidity and mortality. Host cell induction of type I interferon (IFN-I) plays a fundamental role in eliminating the virus during the innate antiviral response. The potential role of N-myc and STAT interactor (NMI) and its underlying mechanisms of action during IAV infection, however, remain elusive. In this study, we found that the expression of NMI increased after IAV infection. Nmi-knockout mice infected with IAV displayed increased survival rate, decreased weight loss, lower viral replication, and attenuated lung inflammation when compared with wild-type mice. Deficiency of NMI promoted the production of IFN-I and IFN-stimulated genes in vivo and in vitro. Reduced levels of NMI also resulted in an increase of the expression of IFN regulator factor (IRF) 7. Further studies have revealed that NMI could interact with IRF7 after IAV infection, and this interaction involved its NID1 and NID2 domain. In addition, NMI facilitated ubiquitination and proteasome-dependent degradation of IRF7 through recruitment of the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM21 (tripartite motif-containing 21) to limit the IAV-triggered innate immunity. Our findings reveal a clearer understanding of the role of NMI in regulating the host innate antiviral response and provide a potential therapeutic target for controlling IAV infection.