---
reference_id: PMID:41041521
title: "Scurvy, a not obsolete disorder: Clinical report in eight young children and literature review."
authors:
- Di Nora A
- Finocchiaro MC
- Pizzo F
- Gian Luca T
- Cucuzza ME
- Di Stefano A
- Spampinato S
- Marino S
- Ruggieri M
- Pavone P
journal: "Open medicine (Warsaw, Poland)"
year: '2025'
doi: 10.1515/med-2024-1086
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:16:36+00:00'
---

# Scurvy, a not obsolete disorder: Clinical report in eight young children and literature review.
**Authors:** Di Nora A, Finocchiaro MC, Pizzo F, Gian Luca T, Cucuzza ME, Di Stefano A, Spampinato S, Marino S, Ruggieri M, Pavone P
**Journal:** Open medicine (Warsaw, Poland) (2025)
**DOI:** [10.1515/med-2024-1086](https://doi.org/10.1515/med-2024-1086)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Vitamin C is a key to many important functions. It stimulates the immune system by protecting humans from infections and shows notable anti-viral and anti-inflammatory properties. With the antioxidative properties it acts against free radicals and cellular aging and prevents tumors. It is also involved in the synthesis of collagen, a structural protein that is essential for the formation of connective tissue as epidermis, muscle, bone, cartilage, etc. Vitamin C promotes the absorption of iron contributing to the production of red blood cells and the synthesis of hemoglobin. Scurvy is a nutritional disorder caused by low vitamin C levels which manifests with varied symptoms affecting multiple organ systems. Vitamin C also known as l-ascorbic acid, is a water-soluble nutrient and is a necessary element as the humans are unable to synthesize it. Vitamin C has an important role in the biochemical reactions of connective tissue synthesis. Presenting manifestations include malaise, gingival bleeding, impaired wound healing, perifollicular hemorrhage, dry hair and brittle nails, iron deficiency, muscle and joint pain, pulmonary hypertension, and other symptoms. The persistent reduced supply of vitamin C in the absence of treatment is cause of a severe progressive worsening of the clinical conditions. The disorder is uncommonly reported in high social level countries and in mentally wellbeing children.

**METHODS:** Herewith, we report case-series of eight children with scurvy diagnosed in two Pediatric Hospitals in Catania, Italy "Policlinico G. Rodolico" and "Cannizzaro" in the last 2 years, October 2021-October 2023. In addition, a systematic literature review of 126 articles with 253 cases of scurvy including age, sex, main clinical manifestations, and eventual presence of neurodevelopmental disorders is reported. Main characteristic of vitamin C and negative effects of its lack with clinical manifestations, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis are also referred.

**RESULTS:** Malnutrition, gastrointestinal, and neurological disorders, are the associated predisposing factors. In the present case-series, to the higher incidence of scurvy compared to others Italian Regions may have contributed an erroneous old prejudice of parents who refuse to give citrus fruits to young children as lemon and oranges may cause cystitis as well severe toxicity when mixed with milk.

**CONCLUSION:** This study aims to alert on the scurvy as a possible cause of childhood disorder also in well industrialized regions, and to offer diagnostic tools for identifying subjects suffering from this illness.