---
reference_id: PMID:33458529
title: Molecular Dynamics Simulation of Atomic Interactions in the Vancomycin Binding Site.
authors:
- Olademehin OP
- Kim SJ
- Shuford KL
journal: ACS omega
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1021/acsomega.0c05353
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:52:54+00:00'
---

# Molecular Dynamics Simulation of Atomic Interactions in the Vancomycin Binding Site.
**Authors:** Olademehin OP, Kim SJ, Shuford KL
**Journal:** ACS omega (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1021/acsomega.0c05353](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.0c05353)

## Content

Vancomycin is a glycopeptide antibiotic produced by Amycolaptopsis orientalis used to treat serious infections by Gram-positive pathogens including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Vancomycin inhibits cell wall biosynthesis by targeting lipid II, which is the membrane-bound peptidoglycan precursor. The heptapeptide aglycon structure of vancomycin binds to the d-Ala-d-Ala of the pentapeptide stem structure in lipid II. The third residue of vancomycin aglycon is asparagine, which is not directly involved in the dipeptide binding. Nonetheless, asparagine plays a crucial role in substrate recognition, as the vancomycin analogue with asparagine substituted by aspartic acid (VD) shows a reduction in antibacterial activities. To characterize the function of asparagine, binding of vancomycin and its aspartic-acid-substituted analogue VD to l-Lys-d-Ala-d-Ala and l-Lys-d-Ala-d-Lac was investigated using molecular dynamic simulations. Binding interactions were analyzed using root-mean-square deviation (RMSD), two-dimensional (2D) contour plots, hydrogen bond analysis, and free energy calculations of the complexes. The analysis shows that the aspartate substitution introduced a negative charge to the binding cleft of VD, which altered the aglycon conformation that minimized the repulsive lone pair interaction in the binding of a depsipeptide. Our findings provide new insight for the development of novel glycopeptide antibiotics against the emerging vancomycin-resistant pathogens by chemical modification at the third residue in vancomycin to improve its binding affinity to the d-Ala-d-Lac-terminated peptidoglycan in lipid II found in vancomycin-resistant enterococci and vancomycin-resistant S. aureus.