---
reference_id: PMID:35872830
title: "Gramicidin A accumulates in mitochondria, reduces ATP levels, induces mitophagy, and inhibits cancer cell growth."
authors:
- Xue YW
- Itoh H
- Dan S
- Inoue M
journal: Chemical science
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1039/d2sc02024f
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:29:15+00:00'
---

# Gramicidin A accumulates in mitochondria, reduces ATP levels, induces mitophagy, and inhibits cancer cell growth.
**Authors:** Xue YW, Itoh H, Dan S, Inoue M
**Journal:** Chemical science (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1039/d2sc02024f](https://doi.org/10.1039/d2sc02024f)

## Content

Gramicidin A (1) is a linear 15-mer peptidic natural product. Because of its sequence of alternating d- and l-chirality, 1 folds into a β6.3-helix in a lipid bilayer and forms a head-to-head dimer to function as a transmembrane channel for monovalent cations (H+, Na+, and K+). The potent anticancer activity of 1 was believed to be mainly attributed to the free ion diffusion across the plasma membrane. In this study, we investigated the cytostatic action of 1 in nanomolar concentrations using the human breast cancer cell line MCF-7, and revealed the unprecedented spatiotemporal behavior of 1 for the first time. Compound 1 not only disrupted the ion concentration gradients of the plasma membrane, but also localized in the mitochondria and depolarized the inner mitochondrial membrane. The diminished H+ gradient in the mitochondria inhibited ATP synthesis. The resultant mitochondrial malfunction led to mitophagy, while the cellular energy depletion induced G1 phase accumulation. The multiple events occurred in a time-dependent fashion and ultimately caused potent inhibition of cell growth. The present study provides valuable information for the design and development of new cytostatic agents exploiting channel-forming natural products.