---
reference_id: PMID:23982598
title: "Pertuzumab: a review of its use for first-line combination treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer."
authors:
- McCormack PL
journal: Drugs
year: '2013'
doi: 10.1007/s40265-013-0109-0
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:28:38+00:00'
---

# Pertuzumab: a review of its use for first-line combination treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer.
**Authors:** McCormack PL
**Journal:** Drugs (2013)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s40265-013-0109-0](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40265-013-0109-0)

## Content

Pertuzumab (Perjeta®) is a humanized anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody that binds to the extracellular dimerization subdomain of the HER2 receptor and reduces HER2 intracellular signalling by preventing HER2 from forming heterodimers with other HER receptors. Inhibition of HER2 signalling results in a reduction of tumour cell proliferation, invasiveness and survival. Pertuzumab and trastuzumab bind to different sites on the HER2 receptor and have complementary antitumour activities; they act synergistically in inhibiting the growth of HER2-overexpressing breast cancer cell lines in vitro. The efficacy of intravenous pertuzumab (840 mg loading dose, then 420 mg every 3 weeks) in combination with trastuzumab plus docetaxel in the first-line treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer was demonstrated in the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multinational, phase III CLEOPATRA trial. Pertuzumab in combination with trastuzumab and docetaxel significantly increased independently assessed median progression-free survival (primary endpoint), objective response rate and overall survival compared with placebo in combination with trastuzumab and docetaxel. Pertuzumab had an acceptable tolerability profile when added to trastuzumab and docetaxel in the pivotal CLEOPATRA trial. Thus, pertuzumab is a valuable addition to the growing list of anti-HER2 targeted therapies for breast cancer.