---
reference_id: PMID:33361712
title: "Clinical implications of conventional cytogenetics, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and molecular testing in chronic myeloid leukaemia patients in the tyrosine kinase inhibitor era - A review."
authors:
- Ankathil R
- Ismail SM
- Mohd Yunus N
- Sulong S
- Husin A
- Abdullah AD
- Hassan R
journal: The Malaysian journal of pathology
year: '2020'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:19:44+00:00'
---

# Clinical implications of conventional cytogenetics, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and molecular testing in chronic myeloid leukaemia patients in the tyrosine kinase inhibitor era - A review.
**Authors:** Ankathil R, Ismail SM, Mohd Yunus N, Sulong S, Husin A, Abdullah AD, Hassan R
**Journal:** The Malaysian journal of pathology (2020)

## Content

Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) provides an illustrative disease model for both molecular pathogenesis of cancer and rational drug therapy. Imatinib mesylate (IM), a BCR-ABL1 targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) drug, is the first line gold standard drug for CML treatment. Conventional cytogenetic analysis (CCA) can identify the standard and variant Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome, and any additional complex chromosome abnormalities at diagnosis as well as during treatment course. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is especially important for cells of CML patients with inadequate or inferior quality metaphases or those with variant Ph translocations. CCA in conjunction with FISH can serve as powerful tools in all phases of CML including the diagnosis, prognosis, risk stratification and monitoring of cytogenetic responses to treatment. Molecular techniques such as reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) is used for the detection of BCR-ABL1 transcripts at diagnosis whereas quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (qRTPCR) is used at the time of diagnosis as well as during TKI therapy for the quantitation of BCR-ABL1 transcripts to evaluate the molecular response and minimal residual disease (MRD). Despite the excellent treatment results obtained after the introduction of TKI drugs, especially Imatinib mesylate (IM), resistance to TKIs develops in approximately 35% - 40% of CML patients on TKI therapy. Since point mutations in BCR-ABL1 are a common cause of IM resistance, mutation analysis is important in IM resistant patients. Mutations are reliably detected by nested PCR amplification of the translocated ABL1 kinase domain followed by direct sequencing of the entire amplified kinase domain. The objective of this review is to highlight the importance of regular and timely CCA, FISH analysis and molecular testing in the diagnosis, prognosis, assessment of therapeutic efficacy, evaluation of MRD and in the detection of BCR-ABL1 kinase mutations which cause therapeutic resistance in adult CML patients.