---
reference_id: PMID:32779341
title: "Understanding immunopathological fallout of human coronavirus infections including COVID-19: Will they cross the path of rheumatologists?"
authors:
- Kabeerdoss J
- Danda D
journal: International journal of rheumatic diseases
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1111/1756-185X.13909
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:51:13+00:00'
---

# Understanding immunopathological fallout of human coronavirus infections including COVID-19: Will they cross the path of rheumatologists?
**Authors:** Kabeerdoss J, Danda D
**Journal:** International journal of rheumatic diseases (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1111/1756-185X.13909](https://doi.org/10.1111/1756-185X.13909)

## Content

Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection causing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is the biggest pandemic of our lifetime to date. No effective treatment is yet in sight for this catastrophic illness. Several antiviral agents and vaccines are in clinical trials, and drug repurposings as immediate and alternative choices are also under consideration. Immunomodulatory agents like hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) as well as biological disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (bDMARDs) such as tocilizumab and anakinra received worldwide attention for treatment of critical patients with COVID-19. This is of interest to rheumatologists, who are well versed with rational use of these agents. This brief review addresses the understandings of some of the common immunopathogenetic mechanisms in the context of autoimmune rheumatic diseases like systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and COVID-19. Apart from demographic comparisons, the role of type I interferons (IFN), presence of antiphospholipid antibodies and finally mechanism of action of HCQ in both the scenarios are discussed here. High risks for fatal disease in COVID-19 include older age, metabolic syndrome, male gender, and individuals who develop delayed type I IFN response. HCQ acts by different mechanisms including prevention of cellular entry of SARS-CoV-2 and inhibition of type I IFN signaling. Recent controversies regarding efficacy of HCQ in management of COVID-19 warrant more studies in that direction. Autoantibodies were also reported in severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) as well as in COVID-19. Rheumatologists need to wait and see whether SARS-CoV-2 infection triggers development of autoimmunity in patients with COVID-19 infection in the long run.