---
reference_id: PMID:21971952
title: Ginsenoside Re lowers blood glucose and lipid levels via activation of AMP-activated protein kinase in HepG2 cells and high-fat diet fed mice.
authors:
- Quan HY
- Yuan HD
- Jung MS
- Ko SK
- Park YG
- Chung SH
journal: International journal of molecular medicine
year: '2012'
doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2011.805
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:01:08+00:00'
---

# Ginsenoside Re lowers blood glucose and lipid levels via activation of AMP-activated protein kinase in HepG2 cells and high-fat diet fed mice.
**Authors:** Quan HY, Yuan HD, Jung MS, Ko SK, Park YG, Chung SH
**Journal:** International journal of molecular medicine (2012)
**DOI:** [10.3892/ijmm.2011.805](https://doi.org/10.3892/ijmm.2011.805)

## Content

Ginsenoside Re is a protopanaxatriol-type saponin isolated from Panax ginseng berry. Although anti-diabetic and anti-hyperlipidemic effects of Re have been reported by several groups, its mechanism of action is largely unknown until now. Here, we examine anti-diabetic and anti-hyperlipidemic activities of Re and action mechanism(s) in human HepG2 hepatocytes and high-fat diet fed C57BL/6J mice. Re suppresses the hepatic glucose production via induction of orphan nuclear receptor small heterodimer partner (SHP), and inhibits lipogenesis via suppression of sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c) and its target gene [fatty acid synthase (FAS), stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 (SCD1)] transcription. These effects were mediated through activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), and abolished when HepG2 cells were treated with an AMPK inhibitor, Compound C. C57BL/6J mice were randomly divided into five groups: regular diet fed group (RD), high-fat diet fed group (HFD) and the HFD plus Re (5, 10, 20 mg/kg) groups. Re treatment groups were fed a high-fat diet for 6 weeks, and then orally administered Re once a day for 3 weeks. The in vitro results are likely to hold true in an in vivo experiment, as Re markedly lowered blood glucose and triglyceride levels and protected against hepatic steatosis in high-fat diet fed C57BL/6J mice. In conclusion, the current study suggest that ginsenoside Re improves hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia through activation of AMPK, and confers beneficial effects on type 2 diabetic patients with insulin resistance and dyslipidemia.