---
reference_id: PMID:30218597
title: Interplay between reversible phosphorylation and irreversible ADP-ribosylation of eukaryotic translation elongation factor 2.
authors:
- Mateus-Seidl R
- Stahl S
- Dengl S
- Birzele F
- Herrmuth H
- Mayer K
- Niederfellner G
- Liu XF
- Pastan I
- Brinkmann U
journal: Biological chemistry
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1515/hsz-2018-0280
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:21:06+00:00'
---

# Interplay between reversible phosphorylation and irreversible ADP-ribosylation of eukaryotic translation elongation factor 2.
**Authors:** Mateus-Seidl R, Stahl S, Dengl S, Birzele F, Herrmuth H, Mayer K, Niederfellner G, Liu XF, Pastan I, Brinkmann U
**Journal:** Biological chemistry (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1515/hsz-2018-0280](https://doi.org/10.1515/hsz-2018-0280)

## Content

The functionality of eukaryotic translation elongation factor 2 (eEF2) is modulated by phosphorylation, eEF2 is simultaneously the molecular target of ADP-ribosylating toxins. We analyzed the interplay between phosphorylation and diphthamide-dependent ADP-ribosylation. Phosphorylation does not require diphthamide, eEF2 without it still becomes phosphorylated. ADP-ribosylation not only modifies the H715 diphthamide but also inhibits phosphorylation of S595 located in proximity to H715, and stimulates phosphorylation of T56. S595 can be phosphorylated by CDK2 and CDK1 which affects EEF2K-mediated T56-phosphorylation. Thus, ADP-ribosylation and S595-phosphorylation by kinases occur within the same vicinity and both trigger T56-phosphorylation. Diphthamide is surface-accessible permitting access to ADP-ribosylating enzymes, the adjacent S595 side chain extends into the interior. This orientation is incompatible with phosphorylation, neither allowing kinase access nor phosphate attachment. S595 phosphorylation must therefore be accompanied by structural alterations affecting the interface to ADP-ribosylating toxins. In agreement with that, replacement of S595 with Ala, Glu or Asp prevents ADP-ribosylation. Phosphorylation (starvation) as well as ADP-ribosylation (toxins) inhibit protein synthesis, both affect the S595/H715 region of eEF2, both trigger T57-phosphorylation eliciting similar transcriptional responses. Phosphorylation is short lived while ADP-ribosylation is stable. Thus, phosphorylation of the S595/H715 'modifier region' triggers transient interruption of translation while ADP-ribosylation arrests irreversibly.