---
reference_id: PMID:26682955
title: "Prediction of survival and magnitude of reverse remodeling using the ST2-R2 score in heart failure: A multicenter study."
authors:
- Lupón J
- Sanders-van Wijk S
- Januzzi JL
- de Antonio M
- Gaggin HK
- Pfisterer M
- Galán A
- Shah R
- Brunner-La Rocca HP
- Bayes-Genis A
journal: International journal of cardiology
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2015.11.163
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:10:15+00:00'
---

# Prediction of survival and magnitude of reverse remodeling using the ST2-R2 score in heart failure: A multicenter study.
**Authors:** Lupón J, Sanders-van Wijk S, Januzzi JL, de Antonio M, Gaggin HK, Pfisterer M, Galán A, Shah R, Brunner-La Rocca HP, Bayes-Genis A
**Journal:** International journal of cardiology (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.ijcard.2015.11.163](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijcard.2015.11.163)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Cardiac remodeling and its reversibility are key in HF outcomes. The ST2-R2 score was recently developed to predict relevant left ventricular (LV) reverse remodeling (R2) in patients with heart failure (HF). In the present study we sought to validate the ST2-R2 score for grading improvement in LV ejection fraction (EF) and LV size at one year, and to evaluate its prognostic implication up to 4 years.

**METHODS:** A total of 569 patients with baseline LVEF <40% from three international cohorts (Barcelona, TIME-CHF, and PROTECT) were included in the study. Patients were classified into four strata based on their ST2-R2 score, which took into account concentrations of the biomarker ST2, non-ischemic etiology, absence of left bundle branch block, HF duration, baseline LVEF, and β-blocker treatment.

**RESULTS:** A significant relationship was observed between ST2-R2 scores and changes in LVEF and indexed LV sizes. LVEF recovery (from +5.6% to +17.3%; p<0.001), percentage reduction in LV end-systolic volume index (from -6.1% to -32.1%; p<0.001) and in LV end-systolic diameter index (from -1.1% to -18.6%; p<0.001) increased over the ST2-R2 strata. A similar trend was observed with diastolic parameters. Improvement in LV function and size was inversely predictive of mortality. Hazard ratios for risk of death, using the lower ST2-R2 score strata (<9) as a reference, were 0.49 (p<0.001; score 9-11), 0.27 (p<0.001; score 12-14), and 0.17 (p<0.001; score 15-17).

**CONCLUSIONS:** The ST2-R2 score predicts reverse LV remodeling in HF patients and is useful for predicting mortality up to 4years.