---
reference_id: PMID:33671646
title: Role of Vitamin C in Prophylaxis and Treatment of Gout-A Literature Review.
authors:
- Brzezińska O
- Styrzyński F
- Makowska J
- Walczak K
journal: Nutrients
year: '2021'
doi: 10.3390/nu13020701
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:09:25+00:00'
---

# Role of Vitamin C in Prophylaxis and Treatment of Gout-A Literature Review.
**Authors:** Brzezińska O, Styrzyński F, Makowska J, Walczak K
**Journal:** Nutrients (2021)
**DOI:** [10.3390/nu13020701](https://doi.org/10.3390/nu13020701)

## Content

Gout, known as "the disease of the kings", is the most frequent type of arthritis. It results from sustained hyperuricemia that leads to monosodium urate crystal deposition in joint structures and soft tissue. Environmental factors such as diet affect the incidence of gout; there is a known relationship between the occurrence of an acute attack of gout and the consumption of alcohol and meat; and a low purine diet is a widely recognized nonpharmacological method of supplementing the treatment and preventing recurrence of arthritis. This review aims to summarize the current knowledge about the role of vitamin C in prevention and treatment of gout. A PubMed/Medline database search on the role of vitamin C in purine metabolism was done. Reports from in vitro and animal studies seem to be promising and to allow explanation of the physiological relationship between vitamin C and uric acid. Most epidemiological studies indicate a significant correlation between high vitamin C intake and lower serum uric acid levels. Despite promising observations, there are few observational and interventional studies, and their results do not clearly define the benefits of a high daily intake of vitamin C in preventing the development and recurrence of gout.