---
reference_id: PMID:37274072
title: "Infliximab vs adalimumab: Points to consider when selecting anti-tumor necrosis factor agents in pediatric patients with Crohn's disease."
authors:
- Kim ES
- Kang B
journal: World journal of gastroenterology
year: '2023'
doi: 10.3748/wjg.v29.i18.2784
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:50:13+00:00'
---

# Infliximab vs adalimumab: Points to consider when selecting anti-tumor necrosis factor agents in pediatric patients with Crohn's disease.
**Authors:** Kim ES, Kang B
**Journal:** World journal of gastroenterology (2023)
**DOI:** [10.3748/wjg.v29.i18.2784](https://doi.org/10.3748/wjg.v29.i18.2784)

## Content

Biologic agents with various mechanisms against Crohn's disease (CD) have been released and are widely used in clinical practice. However, two anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) agents, infliximab (IFX) and adalimumab (ADL), are the only biologic agents approved by the Food and Drug Administration for pediatric CD currently. Therefore, in pediatric CD, the choice of biologic agents should be made more carefully to achieve the therapeutic goal. There are currently no head-to-head trials of biologic agents in pediatric or adult CD. There is a lack of accumulated data for pediatric CD, which requires the extrapolation of adult data for the positioning of biologics in pediatric CD. From a pharmacokinetic point of view, IFX is more advantageous than ADL when the inflammatory burden is high, and ADL is expected to be advantageous over IFX in sustaining remission in the maintenance phase. Additionally, we reviewed the safety profile, immunogenicity, preference, and compliance between IFX and ADL and provide practical insights into the choice of anti-TNF therapy in pediatric CD. Careful evaluation of clinical indications and disease behavior is essential when prescribing anti-TNF agents. In addition, factors such as the efficacy of induction and maintenance of remission, safety profile, immunogenicity, patient preference, and compliance play an important role in evaluating and selecting treatment options.