---
reference_id: PMID:20084257
title: Acute infectious conjunctivitis in childhood.
authors:
- Chawla R
- Kellner JD
- Astle WF
journal: "Paediatrics & child health"
year: '2001'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:28:56+00:00'
---

# Acute infectious conjunctivitis in childhood.
**Authors:** Chawla R, Kellner JD, Astle WF
**Journal:** Paediatrics & child health (2001)

## Content

**OBJECTIVE:** To review the etiology, clinical features and management of acute infectious conjunctivitis in children after the newborn period.

**DATA SOURCES:** Articles obtained from MEDLINE published before March 2000.

**DATA SELECTION AND EXTRACTION:** Representative articles on the etiology and clinical features were selected. Twenty-four clinical trials were also selected. From these articles, the main findings from three placebo controlled trials and two comparative clinical trials involving children are summarized in detail. The main findings from 19 comparative clinical trials in adults are briefly summarized.

**DATA SYNTHESIS AND CONCLUSIONS:** Acute infectious conjunctivitis caused by bacteria or viruses is a very common problem in children after the neonatal period. The most common bacterial pathogens are nontypable Haemophilus influenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae. Diagnostic microbiology tests are not indicated for uncomplicated cases but may be useful for very young or very ill children if there is no response to initial therapy; for nosocomial cases; for cases suspected to be caused by sexually transmitted pathogens; and for outbreaks. Conjunctivitis is usually a mild, self-limited disease, but topical antibiotics are superior to placebo in reducing the duration and severity of symptoms. Most topical agents have equivalent efficacy; therefore, the selection of first-line agents should include inexpensive drugs with few adverse effects. Good choices include polymyxin/gramicidin, polymyxin/trimethoprim or sulfacetamide. Referral to an ophthalmologist should be considered in situations in which the diagnosis of uncomplicated conjunctivitis is in doubt or if there is no prompt response to therapy.