---
reference_id: PMID:28912901
title: "Can a Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor Act as a Glutamatergic Modulator?"
authors:
- Frizzo ME
journal: "Current therapeutic research, clinical and experimental"
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1016/j.curtheres.2017.07.001
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:05:27+00:00'
---

# Can a Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor Act as a Glutamatergic Modulator?
**Authors:** Frizzo ME
**Journal:** Current therapeutic research, clinical and experimental (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.curtheres.2017.07.001](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.curtheres.2017.07.001)

## Content

Sertraline (Zoloft) and fluoxetine (Prozac) are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors whose antidepressant mechanism of action is classically attributed to an elevation of the extracellular levels of serotonin in the synaptic cleft. However, the biological effects of these drugs seem to be more complex than their traditionally described mechanism of action. Among their actions is the inhibition of different types of Na+ and K+ channels, as well as of glutamate uptake activity. The clearance of extracellular glutamate is essential to maintain the central nervous system within physiological conditions, and this excitatory neurotransmitter is removed from the synaptic cleft by astrocyte transporters. This transport depends upon a hyperpolarized membrane potential in astrocytes that is mainly maintained by Kir4.1 K+ channels. The impairment of the Kir4.1 channel activity reduces driving force for the glutamate transporter, resulting in an accumulation of extracellular glutamate. It has been shown that sertraline and fluoxetine inhibit Kir4.1 K+ channels. Recently, we demonstrated that sertraline reduces glutamate uptake in human platelets, which contain a high-affinity Na+-dependent glutamate uptake system, with kinetic and pharmacological properties similar to astrocytes in the central nervous system. Considering these similarities between human platelets and astrocytes, one might ask if sertraline could potentially reduce glutamate clearance in the synaptic cleft and consequently modulate glutamatergic transmission. This possibility merits investigation, since it may provide additional information regarding the mechanism of action and perhaps the side effects of these antidepressants.