---
reference_id: PMID:30296358
title: Gingerenone A Sensitizes the Insulin Receptor and Increases Glucose Uptake by Inhibiting the Activity of p70 S6 Kinase.
authors:
- Chen J
- Sun J
- Prinz RA
- Li Y
- Xu X
journal: "Molecular nutrition & food research"
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1002/mnfr.201800709
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:04:03+00:00'
---

# Gingerenone A Sensitizes the Insulin Receptor and Increases Glucose Uptake by Inhibiting the Activity of p70 S6 Kinase.
**Authors:** Chen J, Sun J, Prinz RA, Li Y, Xu X
**Journal:** Molecular nutrition & food research (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1002/mnfr.201800709](https://doi.org/10.1002/mnfr.201800709)

## Content

**SCOPE:** The bioactive constituents in ginger extract are responsible for anti-hyperglycemic effects and the underlying mechanisms are incompletely understood. Gingerenone A (Gin A) has been identified as an inhibitor of p70 S6 (S6K1), a kinase that plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance. This study aims to evaluate if Gin A can sensitize the insulin receptor by inhibiting S6K1 activity.

**METHODS AND RESULTS:** Western blot analysis reveals that Gin A induces phosphatidylinositide-3 kinase (PI3K) feedback activation in murine 3T3-L1 adipocytes and rat L6 myotubes, as evidenced by increased AKTS473 and S6K1T389 but decreases S6S235/236 and insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS-1)S1101 phosphorylation. Western blot and immunoprecipitation analysis reveal that Gin A increases insulin receptor tyrosine phosphorylation in L6 myotubes and IRS-1 binding to the PI3K in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Confocal microscopy reveals that Gin A enhances insulin-induced translocation of glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) into the cell membrane in L6 cells. 2-NBDG (2-N-(Nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazol-4-yl)amino)-2-deoxyglucose) Fluorescent assay reveals that Gin A enhances insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in 3T3-L1 adipocytes and L6 myotubes.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Gin A overcomes insulin resistance and increases glucose uptake by inhibiting S6K1 activity. Gin A or other plant-derived S6K1 inhibitors could be developed as novel antidiabetic agents.