---
reference_id: PMID:38578780
title: Disruption of the mast cell carboxypeptidase A3 gene does not attenuate airway inflammation and hyperresponsiveness in two mouse models of asthma.
authors:
- Waern I
- Akula S
- Allam VSRR
- Taha S
- Feyerabend TB
- Åbrink M
- Wernersson S
journal: PloS one
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0300668
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:43:37+00:00'
---

# Disruption of the mast cell carboxypeptidase A3 gene does not attenuate airway inflammation and hyperresponsiveness in two mouse models of asthma.
**Authors:** Waern I, Akula S, Allam VSRR, Taha S, Feyerabend TB, Åbrink M, Wernersson S
**Journal:** PloS one (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1371/journal.pone.0300668](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0300668)

## Content

Mast cells are effector cells known to contribute to allergic airway disease. When activated, mast cells release a broad spectrum of inflammatory mediators, including the mast cell-specific protease carboxypeptidase A3 (CPA3). The expression of CPA3 in the airway epithelium and lumen of asthma patients has been associated with a Th2-driven airway inflammation. However, the role of CPA3 in asthma is unclear and therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the impact of CPA3 for the development and severity of allergic airway inflammation using knockout mice with a deletion in the Cpa3 gene. We used the ovalbumin (OVA)- and house-dust mite (HDM) induced murine asthma models, and monitored development of allergic airway inflammation. In the OVA model, mice were sensitized with OVA intraperitoneally at seven time points and challenged intranasally (i.n.) with OVA three times. HDM-treated mice were challenged i.n. twice weekly for three weeks. Both asthma protocols resulted in elevated airway hyperresponsiveness, increased number of eosinophils in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, increased peribronchial mast cell degranulation, goblet cell hyperplasia, thickening of airway smooth muscle layer, increased expression of IL-33 and increased production of allergen-specific IgE in allergen-exposed mice as compared to mocktreated mice. However, increased number of peribronchial mast cells was only seen in the HDM asthma model. The asthma-like responses in Cpa3-/- mice were similar as in wild type mice, regardless of the asthma protocol used. Our results demonstrated that the absence of a functional Cpa3 gene had no effect on several symptoms of asthma in two different mouse models. This suggest that CPA3 is dispensable for development of allergic airway inflammation in acute models of asthma in mice.