---
reference_id: PMID:39149682
title: "Allopurinol: Clinical Considerations in the Development and Treatment of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis, and Other Associated Drug Reactions."
authors:
- Dillman KM
- Hawkins AM
- Ragland AR
- Wester GC
- Greene DR
- Varrassi G
- Moore P
- Behara R
- Ahmadzadeh S
- Siddaiah H
- Shekoohi S
- Kaye AD
journal: Cureus
year: '2024'
doi: 10.7759/cureus.64654
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:09:24+00:00'
---

# Allopurinol: Clinical Considerations in the Development and Treatment of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis, and Other Associated Drug Reactions.
**Authors:** Dillman KM, Hawkins AM, Ragland AR, Wester GC, Greene DR, Varrassi G, Moore P, Behara R, Ahmadzadeh S, Siddaiah H, Shekoohi S, Kaye AD
**Journal:** Cureus (2024)
**DOI:** [10.7759/cureus.64654](https://doi.org/10.7759/cureus.64654)

## Content

Allopurinol lowers urate production through the inhibition of xanthine oxidase. It is oxidatively hydroxylated to oxypurinol and is the most prescribed medication for gout treatment. Although it has a beneficial effect in the treatment of this common disease, like many medications, it is also known for having numerous adverse effects. Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), diseases that exist on a spectrum, are two of the most dangerous adverse effects associated with allopurinol use. These immune-mediated disease processes involve almost every organ system. They are essential to recognize as early as possible, as they could potentially be deadly, requiring cessation of the medication with initial signs of rash or other early manifestations of SJS/TEN. One major consideration in the increased risk of allopurinol-mediated or modulated SJS/TEN is the need to have a lower dose in the setting of renal disease. The purpose of this review is not only to examine the involvement of allopurinol in SJS/TEN but also to provide detailed information about the drug, allopurinol, and general features and characteristics of SJS/TEN and other associated drug reactions.