---
reference_id: PMID:26947333
title: "Type 1 5'-deiodinase activity is inhibited by oxidative stress and restored by alpha-lipoic acid in HepG2 cells."
authors:
- Chen K
- Yan B
- Wang F
- Wen F
- Xing X
- Tang X
- Shi Y
- Le G
journal: Biochemical and biophysical research communications
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.02.119
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:07:30+00:00'
---

# Type 1 5'-deiodinase activity is inhibited by oxidative stress and restored by alpha-lipoic acid in HepG2 cells.
**Authors:** Chen K, Yan B, Wang F, Wen F, Xing X, Tang X, Shi Y, Le G
**Journal:** Biochemical and biophysical research communications (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.02.119](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.02.119)

## Content

3,3',5-triiodothyronine (T3) is largely generated from thyroxine (T4) by the catalysis of deiodinases in peripheral tissues. Emerging evidences have indicated its broad participation in regulating various metabolic process via protecting tissues from oxidative stress and improving cellular antioxidant capacity. However, the potential correlation between the oxidative stress and conversion of T4 to T3 is still unclear. In the present study, the effects of T3 and T4 on redox homeostasis in HepG2 cells pre-treated with H2O2 was investigated. It revealed that T3 significantly rescued the apoptotic cell death, consistent with an upregulation of cell antioxidant ability and reduction of ROS accumulation while T4 did not. Afterwards, we examined the enzyme activity and mRNA expression of type 1 5'-deiodianse (DIO1), T3 and rT3 level and found that H2O2 reduced both DIO1 activity and expression in a dose-dependent manner, which consequently declined T3 and rT3 generation. Alpha-lipoic acid (LA) treatment notably restored DIO1 activity, T3 and rT3 level, as well as transcriptional abnormalities of inflammation-associated genes. It suggests that oxidative stress may reduce DIO1 activity by an indirect way like activating cellular inflammatory responses. All these results indicate that the oxidative stress downregulates the conversion of T4 to T3 through DIO1 function in HepG2 cells.