---
reference_id: PMID:11292012
title: Triazolam discrimination in squirrel monkeys distinguishes high-efficacy agonists from other benzodiazepines and non-benzodiazepine drugs.
authors:
- Lelas S
- Rowlett JK
- Spealman RD
journal: Psychopharmacology
year: '2001'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:32:35+00:00'
---

# Triazolam discrimination in squirrel monkeys distinguishes high-efficacy agonists from other benzodiazepines and non-benzodiazepine drugs.
**Authors:** Lelas S, Rowlett JK, Spealman RD
**Journal:** Psychopharmacology (2001)

## Content

**RATIONALE:** Triazolam is a high-efficacy benzodiazepine (BZ) agonist, which might be hypothesized to engender highly pharmacologically specific discriminative stimulus (DS) effects and distinguish among BZ agonists with different intrinsic efficacy.

**OBJECTIVES:** The pharmacological specificity of the triazolam stimulus was determined by examining the effects of conventional and atypical BZ agonists, and other ligands active at the gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) receptor complex. Receptor mechanisms underlying the DS effects of triazolam were examined further using the BZ receptor antagonist flumazenil.

**METHODS AND RESULTS:** Squirrel monkeys were trained to discriminate triazolam (0.03 mg/kg, i.v.) from vehicle under a fixed-ratio 10 (FR 10) schedule of food reinforcement. While the BZ agonists midazolam, diazepam, and lorazepam substituted fully for triazolam, chlordiazepoxide, oxazepam and nordiazepam produced only partial substitution, suggesting these latter compounds may have reduced intrinsic efficacy. The BZ/alpha1-preferring agonist zolpidem substituted fully for triazolam, and potencies for triazolam-like effects of BZ agonists were significantly correlated with potencies for their zolpidem-like effects (Rowlett et al. 1999). Flumazenil antagonized the DS effects of triazolam, but the slope of the Schild plot was significantly different from unity, suggesting multiple receptors may be involved in the DS effects of triazolam.

**CONCLUSIONS:** BZ agonists can be distinguished on the basis of substitution for triazolam and, thus, the triazolam discrimination may be a useful tool for identifying compounds of different efficacy at BZ receptors. BZ/alpha1 receptors appear to play a prominent role in the DS effects of triazolam, but the contribution of other subtypes of BZ receptors cannot be ruled out.