---
reference_id: PMID:36555149
title: Butyrate Lowers Cellular Cholesterol through HDAC Inhibition and Impaired SREBP-2 Signalling.
authors:
- Bridgeman S
- Woo HC
- Newsholme P
- Mamotte C
journal: International journal of molecular sciences
year: '2022'
doi: 10.3390/ijms232415506
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T18:58:23+00:00'
---

# Butyrate Lowers Cellular Cholesterol through HDAC Inhibition and Impaired SREBP-2 Signalling.
**Authors:** Bridgeman S, Woo HC, Newsholme P, Mamotte C
**Journal:** International journal of molecular sciences (2022)
**DOI:** [10.3390/ijms232415506](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms232415506)

## Content

In animal studies, HDAC inhibitors such as butyrate have been reported to reduce plasma cholesterol, while conferring protection from diabetes, but studies on the underlying mechanisms are lacking. This study compares the influence of butyrate and other HDAC inhibitors to that of statins on cholesterol metabolism in multiple cell lines, but primarily in HepG2 hepatic cells due to the importance of the liver in cholesterol metabolism. Sodium butyrate reduced HepG2 cholesterol content, as did sodium valproate and the potent HDAC inhibitor trichostatin A, suggesting HDAC inhibition as the exacting mechanism. In contrast to statins, which increase SREBP-2 regulated processes, HDAC inhibition downregulated SREBP-2 targets such as HMGCR and the LDL receptor. Moreover, in contrast to statin treatment, butyrate did not increase cholesterol uptake by HepG2 cells, consistent with its failure to increase LDL receptor expression. Sodium butyrate also reduced ABCA1 and SRB1 protein expression in HepG2 cells, but these effects were not consistent across all cell types. Overall, the underlying mechanism of cell cholesterol lowering by sodium butyrate and HDAC inhibition is consistent with impaired SREBP-2 signalling, and calls into question the possible use of butyrate for lowering of serum LDL cholesterol in humans.