---
reference_id: PMID:34006643
title: Cell lineage tracing links ERα loss in Erbb2-positive breast cancers to the arising of a highly aggressive breast cancer subtype.
authors:
- Ding Y
- Liu Y
- Lee DK
- Tong Z
- Yu X
- Li Y
- Xu Y
- Lanz RB
- "O'Malley BW"
- Xu J
journal: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1073/pnas.2100673118
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:29:50+00:00'
---

# Cell lineage tracing links ERα loss in Erbb2-positive breast cancers to the arising of a highly aggressive breast cancer subtype.
**Authors:** Ding Y, Liu Y, Lee DK, Tong Z, Yu X, Li Y, Xu Y, Lanz RB, O'Malley BW, Xu J
**Journal:** Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1073/pnas.2100673118](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2100673118)

## Content

HER2-positive (HER2+) breast cancers (BrCs) contain approximately equal numbers of ERα+HER2+ and ERα-HER2+ cases. An enduring obstacle is the unclear cell lineage-related characteristics of these BrCs. Although ERα+HER2+ BrCs could lose ERα to become ERα-HER2+ BrCs, direct evidence is missing. To investigate ERα dependencies and their implications during BrC growth and metastasis, we generated ERαCreRFP-T mice that produce an RFP-marked ERα+ mammary gland epithelial cell (MGEC) lineage. RCAS virus-mediated expression of Erbb2, a rodent Her2 homolog, first produced comparable numbers of ERα+RFP+Erbb2+ and ERα-RFP-Erbb2+ MGECs. Early hyperplasia developed mostly from ERα+RFP+Erbb2+ cells and ERα-RFP-Erbb2+ cells in these lesions were rare. The subsequently developed ductal carcinomas in situ had 64% slow-proliferating ERα+RFP+Erbb2+ cells, 15% fast-proliferating ERα-RFP+Erbb2+ cells derived from ERα+RFP+Erbb2+ cells, and 20% fast-proliferating ERα-RFP-Erbb2+ cells. The advanced tumors had mostly ERα-RFP+Erbb2+ and ERα-RFP-Erbb2+ cells and only a very small population of ERα+RFP+Erbb2+ cells. In ERα-RFP+Erbb2+ cells, GATA3 and FoxA1 decreased expression and ERα promoter regions became methylated, consistent with the loss of ERα expression. Lung metastases consisted of mostly ERα-RFP+Erbb2+ cells, a few ERα-RFP-Erbb2+ cells, and no ERα+RFP+Erbb2+ cells. The high metastatic capacity of ERα-RFP+Erbb2+ cells was associated with ERK1/2 activation. These results show that the slow-proliferating, nonmetastatic ERα+RFP+Erbb2+ cells progressively lose ERα during tumorigenesis to become fast-proliferating, highly metastatic ERα-RFP+Erbb2+ cells. The ERα-Erbb2+ BrCs with an ERα+ origin are more aggressive than those ERα-Erbb2+ BrCs with an ERα- origin, and thus, they should be distinguished and treated differently in the future.