---
reference_id: PMID:35179782
title: Clinical and molecular characteristics of estrogen receptor-positive ultralow risk breast cancer tumors identified by the 70-gene signature.
authors:
- Johansson A
- Yu NY
- Iftimi A
- Tobin NP
- "van 't Veer L"
- Nordenskjöld B
- Benz CC
- Fornander T
- Perez-Tenorio G
- Stål O
- Esserman LJ
- Yau C
- Lindström LS
journal: International journal of cancer
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1002/ijc.33969
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:28:03+00:00'
---

# Clinical and molecular characteristics of estrogen receptor-positive ultralow risk breast cancer tumors identified by the 70-gene signature.
**Authors:** Johansson A, Yu NY, Iftimi A, Tobin NP, van 't Veer L, Nordenskjöld B, Benz CC, Fornander T, Perez-Tenorio G, Stål O, Esserman LJ, Yau C, Lindström LS
**Journal:** International journal of cancer (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1002/ijc.33969](https://doi.org/10.1002/ijc.33969)

## Content

The metastatic potential of estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancers is heterogeneous and distant recurrences occur months to decades after primary diagnosis. We have previously shown that patients with tumors classified as ultralow risk by the 70-gene signature have a minimal long-term risk of fatal breast cancer. Here, we evaluate the previously unexplored underlying clinical and molecular characteristics of ultralow risk tumors in 538 ER-positive patients from the Stockholm tamoxifen randomized trial (STO-3). Out of the 98 ultralow risk tumors, 89% were luminal A molecular subtype, whereas 26% of luminal A tumors were of ultralow risk. Compared to other ER-positive tumors, ultralow risk tumors were significantly (Fisher's test, P < .05) more likely to be of smaller tumor size, lower grade, progesterone receptor (PR)-positive, human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2)-negative and have low Ki-67 levels (proliferation-marker). Moreover, ultralow risk tumors showed significantly lower expression scores of multi-gene modules associated with the AKT/mTOR-pathway, proliferation (AURKA), HER2/ERBB2-signaling, IGF1-pathway, PTEN-loss and immune response (IMMUNE1 and IMMUNE2) and higher expression scores of the PIK3CA-mutation-associated module. Furthermore, 706 genes were significantly (FDR < 0.001) differentially expressed in ultralow risk tumors, including lower expression of genes involved in immune response, PI3K/Akt/mTOR-pathway, histones, cell cycle, DNA repair, apoptosis and higher expression of genes coding for epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and homeobox proteins, among others. In conclusion, ultralow risk tumors, associated with minimal long-term risk of fatal disease, differ from other ER-positive tumors, including luminal A molecular subtype tumors. Identification of these characteristics is important to improve our prediction of nonfatal vs fatal breast cancer.