---
reference_id: PMID:34433736
title: Bexarotene-induced central hypothyroidism assessed by TRH stimulation test in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma patients.
authors:
- Toi N
- Kurajoh M
- Miyaoka D
- Nagata Y
- Yamada S
- Imanishi Y
- Hayashi D
- Tateishi C
- Inaba M
- Tsuruta D
- Morita A
- Emoto M
journal: Endocrine journal
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ21-0313
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:07:51+00:00'
---

# Bexarotene-induced central hypothyroidism assessed by TRH stimulation test in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma patients.
**Authors:** Toi N, Kurajoh M, Miyaoka D, Nagata Y, Yamada S, Imanishi Y, Hayashi D, Tateishi C, Inaba M, Tsuruta D, Morita A, Emoto M
**Journal:** Endocrine journal (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1507/endocrj.EJ21-0313](https://doi.org/10.1507/endocrj.EJ21-0313)

## Content

Bexarotene-induced central hypothyroidism (CH), for which levothyroxine (LT4) replacement is recommended, has been shown to be caused by pituitary but not hypothalamic disorder experimentally, though the underlying mechanism in humans remains unclear. Here, the pathophysiology of bexarotene-induced CH was examined using a TRH stimulation test in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) patients. In this retrospective longitudinal observational study, serum TSH and free T4 (F-T4) levels were measured in 10 euthyroid patients with CTCL during 24 weeks of bexarotene treatment. TRH stimulation testing was performed following CH diagnosis, with LT4 replacement dosage adjusted to maintain F-T4 at the pre-treatment level. After one week of bexarotene administration, all 10 patients developed CH, based on combined findings of low or low-normal F-T4 with low or normal TSH levels. TSH peak response after a stimulation test at one week was reached at 30 minutes. However, that was <4 μIU/mL in all patients, indicating a blunted though not exaggerated and delayed TSH response. In eight who continued bexarotene for 24 weeks, median LT4 replacement dosage was 125 (range, 75-150) μg/day. TSH level at 30 as well as 15, 60, 90, and 120 minutes after TRH stimulation was significantly correlated with LT4 replacement dosage (ρ = -0.913, p = 0.002), whereas TSH and F-T4 basal levels at one week were not. These results suggest that pituitary hypothyroidism is responsible for bexarotene-induced CH, while TSH levels after TRH stimulation precisely reflect residual pituitary-thyroid function in patients receiving bexarotene.