---
reference_id: PMID:15996638
title: Effect of statins on the proteasomal activity in mammalian endothelial and vascular smooth muscle cells.
authors:
- Ludwig A
- Friedel B
- Metzkow S
- Meiners S
- Stangl V
- Baumann G
- Stangl K
journal: Biochemical pharmacology
year: '2005'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:36:52+00:00'
---

# Effect of statins on the proteasomal activity in mammalian endothelial and vascular smooth muscle cells.
**Authors:** Ludwig A, Friedel B, Metzkow S, Meiners S, Stangl V, Baumann G, Stangl K
**Journal:** Biochemical pharmacology (2005)

## Content

Inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase, known as statins, effectively prevent cardiovascular events. In addition to their lipid lowering properties, a variety of pleiotropic effects on cardiovascular cells were demonstrated in vitro and in vivo. It has been hypothized that statins deploy a part of their effects by targeting the proteasome. Statin-induced effects remarkably overlap with effects obtained by inhibition of the proteasome in endothelial and vascular smooth muscle cells (e.g., endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS)-upregulation, attenuation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) activation, inhibition of proliferation). We therefore examined, whether statins modulate the proteasomal activity of vascular cells. We studied the effect of simvastatin, atorvastatin, and pravastatin as well as of the proteasome inhibitor clasto-lactacystin on morphology, proliferation, viability, and proteasomal activity in two mammalian endothelial cell lines (CPAE and Ea.hy962), and in primary vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). Both statins and lactacystin induced comparable morphological changes and attenuated proliferation of calf pulmonary artery cell line (CPAE). Whereas the statin-induced effects were reversed by mevalonic acid, however, the lactacystin-induced alterations were not influenced by mevalonic acid. As expected, lactacystin caused a significant loss of proteasomal activity measured in the extract of treated CPAE cells, whereas the extracts of statin-treated CPAEs exhibited unchanged activities. This result was also confirmed in Ea.hy926 cells and in primary rat VSMCs. We show here, that even high doses of statins do not modulate the activities of purified human 20S proteasomes. We conclude that the similar biological effects of statins and proteasome inhibitors in vascular cells are not due to a common inhibitory mechanism of action on the proteasome.