---
reference_id: PMID:33806551
title: Impact of SGLT-2 Inhibition on Cardiometabolic Abnormalities in a Rat Model of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome.
authors:
- Pruett JE
- Torres Fernandez ED
- Everman SJ
- Vinson RM
- Davenport K
- Logan MK
- Ye SA
- Romero DG
- Yanes Cardozo LL
journal: International journal of molecular sciences
year: '2021'
doi: 10.3390/ijms22052576
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:11:03+00:00'
---

# Impact of SGLT-2 Inhibition on Cardiometabolic Abnormalities in a Rat Model of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome.
**Authors:** Pruett JE, Torres Fernandez ED, Everman SJ, Vinson RM, Davenport K, Logan MK, Ye SA, Romero DG, Yanes Cardozo LL
**Journal:** International journal of molecular sciences (2021)
**DOI:** [10.3390/ijms22052576](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms22052576)

## Content

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine disorder in reproductive-age women. PCOS is characterized by hyperandrogenism and ovulatory dysfunction. Women with PCOS have a high prevalence of obesity, insulin resistance (IR), increased blood pressure (BP), and activation of the renin angiotensin system (RAS). Effective evidence-based therapeutics to ameliorate the cardiometabolic complications in PCOS are lacking. The sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitor Empagliflozin (EMPA) reduces BP and hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes mellitus. We hypothesized that hyperandrogenemia upregulates renal SGLT2 expression and that EMPA ameliorates cardiometabolic complications in a hyperandrogenemic PCOS model. Four-week-old female Sprague Dawley rats were treated with dihydrotestosterone (DHT) for 90 days, and EMPA was co-administered for the last three weeks. DHT upregulated renal SGLT2, SGLT4, and GLUT2, but downregulated SGLT3 mRNA expression. EMPA decreased DHT-mediated increases in fat mass, plasma leptin, and BP, but failed to decrease plasma insulin, HbA1c, or albuminuria. EMPA decreased DHT-mediated increase in renal angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), and angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AGT1R) mRNA and protein expression. In summary, SGLT2 inhibition proved beneficial in adiposity and BP reduction in a hyperandrogenemic PCOS model; however, additional therapies may be needed to improve IR and renal injury.