---
reference_id: PMID:33183480
title: Effects of Atorvastatin Combined with Nano-Selenium on Blood Lipids and Oxidative Stress in Atherosclerotic Rats.
authors:
- Han Z
- Wang Y
- Li J
journal: Journal of nanoscience and nanotechnology
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1166/jnn.2021.18633
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:03:35+00:00'
---

# Effects of Atorvastatin Combined with Nano-Selenium on Blood Lipids and Oxidative Stress in Atherosclerotic Rats.
**Authors:** Han Z, Wang Y, Li J
**Journal:** Journal of nanoscience and nanotechnology (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1166/jnn.2021.18633](https://doi.org/10.1166/jnn.2021.18633)

## Content

Dyslipidemia and oxidative stress injury of blood vessel walls play important roles in the formation of atherosclerosis (AS) and plaque progression. This is also the main pathological basis for atherosclerosis. Statins, as inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase in the process of cholesterol biosynthesis, have become key drugs for lipid-lowering treatment. Many studies have found the anti-atherosclerotic effect of atorvastatin is far beyond the lipid-lowering effect. Its lipid-lowering effects are also involved, such as anti-inflammatory, inhibiting endothelial cell ROS production, and improving endothelial cell damage. Nano selenium (Nano-Se) shows stronger anti-oxidation ability, lower toxicity, high efficiency absorption and strong immune regulation ability. Because of the unique biological effects of Nano-Se, it has broad prospects in the field of human health care. Therefore, in this study, by constructing a rat model of abnormal lipid metabolism, we observed changes in parameters such as serum peroxidase (MPO), propylene glycol (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and blood lipid levels in atherosclerotic rats Happening, furthermore, the effects of atorvastatin+nano-selenium on lipid metabolism disorders and the protective effects and mechanisms of oxidative stress injury in rats were investigated and with a view to providing new targets for the treatment of arteriosclerosis. The results of this study demonstrated that contrast to the AS rat, the combined use of atorvastatin+nano-selenium group could significantly reduce serum TC, TG, and LDL-C contents, and declined tissue lesions such as aortic arch and liver; Significantly enhanced the activities of GPx-1 and SOD in serum, decreased MDA content, and increased the SOD activity in rat aorta. These results suggested that the combined use of atorvastatin+nano-selenium has good protection against oxidative stress caused by disorders of lipid metabolism.