---
reference_id: PMID:32007495
title: Benzodiazepine exposure induces transcriptional down-regulation of GABAA receptor α1 subunit gene via L-type voltage-gated calcium channel activation in rat cerebrocortical neurons.
authors:
- Foitzick MF
- Medina NB
- Iglesias García LC
- Gravielle MC
journal: Neuroscience letters
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2020.134801
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:34:05+00:00'
---

# Benzodiazepine exposure induces transcriptional down-regulation of GABAA receptor α1 subunit gene via L-type voltage-gated calcium channel activation in rat cerebrocortical neurons.
**Authors:** Foitzick MF, Medina NB, Iglesias García LC, Gravielle MC
**Journal:** Neuroscience letters (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.neulet.2020.134801](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neulet.2020.134801)

## Content

GABAA receptors are targets of different pharmacologically relevant drugs, such as barbiturates, benzodiazepines, and anesthetics. In particular, benzodiazepines are prescribed for the treatment of anxiety, sleep disorders, and seizure disorders. Benzodiazepines potentiate GABA responses by binding to GABAA receptors, which are mainly composed of α (1-3, 5), β2, and γ2 subunits. Prolonged activation of GABAA receptors by endogenous and exogenous modulators induces adaptive changes that lead to tolerance. For example, chronic administration of benzodiazepines produces tolerance to most of their pharmacological actions, limiting their usefulness. The mechanism of benzodiazepine tolerance is still unknown. To investigate the molecular basis of tolerance, we studied the effect of sustained exposure of rat cerebral cortical neurons to diazepam on the GABAA receptor. Flunitrazepam binding experiments showed that diazepam treatment induced uncoupling between GABA and benzodiazepine sites, which was blocked by co-incubation with flumazenil, picrotoxin, or nifedipine. Diazepam also produced selective transcriptional down-regulation of GABAA receptor α1 subunit gene through a mechanism dependent on the activation of L-type voltage-gated calcium channels. These findings suggest benzodiazepine-induced stimulation of calcium influx through L-type voltage-gated calcium channels triggers the activation of a signaling pathway that leads to uncoupling and an alteration of receptor subunit expression. Insights into the mechanism of benzodiazepine tolerance will contribute to the design of new drugs that can maintain their efficacies after long-term treatments.