---
reference_id: PMID:12793598
title: Role of statin pleiotropism in acute coronary syndromes and stroke.
authors:
- Liao JK
journal: International journal of clinical practice. Supplement
year: '2003'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T18:57:42+00:00'
---

# Role of statin pleiotropism in acute coronary syndromes and stroke.
**Authors:** Liao JK
**Journal:** International journal of clinical practice. Supplement (2003)

## Content

Several landmark clinical trials have demonstrated the benefit of lipid-lowering with statins for the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. The clinical data in support of lowering cholesterol by statins are unequivocal. The established mechanism of action is via sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP) activation due to reduced hepatic cholesterol synthesis and secondary upregulation of the low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-receptor, leading to enhanced clearance of circulating cholesterol and lipids. Although it is widely accepted that most clinical benefit obtained with statins is a direct result of their lipid-lowering properties, there is still some debate as to whether the so-called 'pleiotropic effects' of statins contribute to the clinical outcome in vascular disease, or whether all the beneficial effects of statins are simply due to lipid-lowering. For example, these agents appear to display additional cholesterol-independent effects on various aspects of cardiovascular disease, including improving endothelial function, decreasing vascular inflammation and enhancing plaque stability. Thus, further studies are needed to understand the full impact of statin therapy on each of these processes and whether these effects contribute to the clinical benefits of statins in acute coronary syndromes and stroke.