---
reference_id: PMID:35894149
title: "Therapeutic effects of statins on osteoarthritis: A review."
authors:
- Saberianpour S
- Abolbashari S
- Modaghegh MHS
- Karimian MS
- Eid AH
- Sathyapalan T
- Sahebkar A
journal: Journal of cellular biochemistry
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1002/jcb.30309
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T18:57:23+00:00'
---

# Therapeutic effects of statins on osteoarthritis: A review.
**Authors:** Saberianpour S, Abolbashari S, Modaghegh MHS, Karimian MS, Eid AH, Sathyapalan T, Sahebkar A
**Journal:** Journal of cellular biochemistry (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1002/jcb.30309](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcb.30309)

## Content

Osteoarthritis (OA) is a progressive joint disease. The etiology of OA is considered to be multifactorial. Currently, there is no definitive treatment for OA, and the existing treatments are not very effective. Hypercholesterolemia is considered a novel risk factor for the development of OA. Statins act as a competitive inhibitor of the β-hydroxy β-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase and are widely used to manage hypercholesterolemia. Inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase results in reduced synthesis of a metabolite named mevalonate, thereby reducing cholesterol biosynthesis in subsequent steps. By this mechanism, statins such as atorvastatin and simvastatin could potentially have a preventive impact on joint cartilage experiencing osteoarthritic deterioration by reducing serum cholesterol levels. Atorvastatin can protect cartilage degradation following interleukin-1β-stimulation. Atorvastatin stimulates the STAT1-caspase-3 signaling pathway that was shown to be responsible for its anti-inflammatory effects on the knee joint. Simvastatin had chondroprotective effects on OA in vitro by reducing matrix metalloproteinases expression patterns. In this study, we tried to review the therapeutic effects of statins on OA.