---
reference_id: PMID:36853472
title: Role of P11 through serotonergic and glutamatergic pathways in LID.
authors:
- Noori A
- Farhadi K
- Mohtasham Kia Y
- Hosseini N
- Mehrabi S
journal: Molecular biology reports
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1007/s11033-023-08326-3
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:02:57+00:00'
---

# Role of P11 through serotonergic and glutamatergic pathways in LID.
**Authors:** Noori A, Farhadi K, Mohtasham Kia Y, Hosseini N, Mehrabi S
**Journal:** Molecular biology reports (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s11033-023-08326-3](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11033-023-08326-3)

## Content

Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder caused by the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. This leads to the pathogenesis of multiple basal ganglia-thalamomotor loops and diverse neurotransmission alterations. Dopamine replacement therapy, and on top of that, levodopa and l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), is the gold standard treatment, while it develops numerous complications. Levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) is well-known as the most prominent side effect. Several studies have been devoted to tackling this problem. Studies showed that metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) antagonists and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1B (5HT1B) agonists significantly reduced LID when considering the glutamatergic overactivity and compensatory mechanisms of serotonergic neurons after L-DOPA therapy. Moreover, it is documented that these receptors act through an adaptor protein called P11 (S100A10). This protein has been thought to play a crucial role in LID due to its interactions with numerous ion channels and receptors. Lately, experiments have shown successful evidence of the effects of P11 blockade on alleviating LID greater than 5HT1B and mGluR5 manipulations. In contrast, there is a trace of ambiguity in the exact mechanism of action. P11 has shown the potential to be a promising target to diminish LID and prolong L-DOPA therapy in parkinsonian patients owing to further studies and experiments.