---
reference_id: PMID:16244767
title: Different effect of statins on platelet oxidized-LDL receptor (CD36 and LOX-1) expression in hypercholesterolemic subjects.
authors:
- Bruni F
- Pasqui AL
- Pastorelli M
- Bova G
- Cercignani M
- Palazzuoli A
- Sawamura T
- Gioffre WR
- Auteri A
- Puccetti L
journal: "Clinical and applied thrombosis/hemostasis : official journal of the International Academy of Clinical and Applied Thrombosis/Hemostasis"
year: '2005'
corrections_in:
- "Clin Appl Thromb Hemost. 2007 Jul;13(3):341"
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:36:20+00:00'
---

# Different effect of statins on platelet oxidized-LDL receptor (CD36 and LOX-1) expression in hypercholesterolemic subjects.
**Authors:** Bruni F, Pasqui AL, Pastorelli M, Bova G, Cercignani M, Palazzuoli A, Sawamura T, Gioffre WR, Auteri A, Puccetti L
**Journal:** Clinical and applied thrombosis/hemostasis : official journal of the International Academy of Clinical and Applied Thrombosis/Hemostasis (2005)

## Content

Hydroxymethyl-glutaryl-CoA-reductase inhibitors (statins) reduce cardiovascular mortality by decreasing cholesterol as well as by non-lipid-related actions. Oxidized low-density lipoproteins (ox-LDL) are pro-atherogenic molecules and potent platelet agonists. CD36 and lectin-like ox-LDL receptor-1 (LOX-1) are specific ox-LDL receptors also expressed in platelets. This study was planned to address whether treatment with atorvastatin 10 mg/day, pravastatin 40 mg/day or simvastatin 20 mg/day could affect platelet CD36 and LOX-1 expression. Twenty-four patients for each treatment were evaluated after 3, 6, and 9 days and at 6 weeks for complete lipid profile (chromogenic), ox-LDL (ELISA), platelet P-selectin (P-sel), CD36, LOX-1 (FACS), and intracellular citrullin recovery (iCit) (HPLC). Data show hyperactivated platelets (P-sel absolute values, percent variation in activated cells, all p < 0.001), and CD36 and LOX-1 overexpression (all p < 0.001) in patients at baseline. P-sel, CD36, and LOX-1 were significantly decreased by atorvastatin and simvastatin (all p < 0.01) and related with iCit increase (r = 0.58, p < 0.001) and platelet-associated ox-LDL (r = 0.51, p < 0.01) at 9 days. Pravastatin reduced LOX-1 and P-sel (p < 0.05) at 6 weeks in relation with decreased LDL and ox-LDL (r = 0.39, p < 0.01 and r = 0.37, p < 0.01, respectively). These data suggest that atorvastatin and simvastatin reduce platelet activity by exposure of CD36 and LOX-1 before significant LDL reduction, whereas pravastatin action is detected later and in relation with LDL and ox-LDL lowering. Rapid and consistent reduction of CD36 and LOX-1 could be considered a direct anti-atherothrombotic mechanism related to the role of ox-LDL in platelet activation, platelet-endothelium interactions, and NO synthase activity.