---
reference_id: PMID:15852222
title: "Pharmacology of CS-747 (prasugrel, LY640315), a novel, potent antiplatelet agent with in vivo P2Y12 receptor antagonist activity."
authors:
- Niitsu Y
- Jakubowski JA
- Sugidachi A
- Asai F
journal: Seminars in thrombosis and hemostasis
year: '2005'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:13:26+00:00'
---

# Pharmacology of CS-747 (prasugrel, LY640315), a novel, potent antiplatelet agent with in vivo P2Y12 receptor antagonist activity.
**Authors:** Niitsu Y, Jakubowski JA, Sugidachi A, Asai F
**Journal:** Seminars in thrombosis and hemostasis (2005)

## Content

CS-747 (prasugrel, LY640315) is a member of the thienopyridine class of oral platelet aggregation inhibitors that includes ticlopidine and clopidogrel. A single oral administration of CS-747 produced a dose-related inhibition of platelet aggregation in rats that was approximately 10- and 100-fold more potent than that of clopidogrel and ticlopidine, respectively. The antiaggregatory effect of CS-747 was evident at 30 minutes and lasted until 72 hours after dosing, indicating fast onset and long duration of action. CS-747 showed more potent antithrombotic activity compared with clopidogrel and ticlopidine with the same rank order as the antiaggregatory potencies. Combined administration of CS-747 with aspirin to rats produced substantially greater inhibition of both platelet aggregation and thrombus formation compared with each agent alone. The antiplatelet action of CS-747 is due to irreversible and selective blockade of platelet P2Y (12) adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptors by its active metabolite R-138727. In phase I studies, a single oral dose of CS-747 (30 and 75 mg) produced > 50% inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation, with rapid onset (1 hour) and long duration (> 48 hours) of action. In healthy volunteers, once-daily administration of 10 mg CS-747 for 10 days showed significant cumulative inhibition of platelet aggregation from 2 days after the first dose until at least 2 days after the final dose. Studies conducted to date indicate that CS-747 is a highly effective antiplatelet and antithrombotic agent and is anticipated to be effective in the treatment of atherothrombotic and other ischemic vascular diseases.