---
reference_id: PMID:35798982
title: β1- and β1/β2-adrenergic receptor antagonists block 6-nitrodopamine-induced contractions of the rat isolated epididymal vas deferens.
authors:
- Lima AT
- Amorim AC
- Britto-Júnior J
- Campitelli RR
- Fregonesi A
- Mónica FZ
- Antunes E
- De Nucci G
journal: "Naunyn-Schmiedeberg's archives of pharmacology"
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1007/s00210-022-02268-6
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:10:50+00:00'
---

# β1- and β1/β2-adrenergic receptor antagonists block 6-nitrodopamine-induced contractions of the rat isolated epididymal vas deferens.
**Authors:** Lima AT, Amorim AC, Britto-Júnior J, Campitelli RR, Fregonesi A, Mónica FZ, Antunes E, De Nucci G
**Journal:** Naunyn-Schmiedeberg's archives of pharmacology (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s00210-022-02268-6](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00210-022-02268-6)

## Content

6-Nitrodopamine (6-ND) is an endogenous modulator of the contractility in the rat isolated epididymal vas deferens (RIEVD) and considered to be the main peripheral mediator of the emission process. Use of selective and unselective β-adrenergic receptor antagonists has been associated with ejaculatory failure. Here, the effects of selective β1- and β1/β2-adrenergic receptor antagonists on RIEVD contractions induced by 6-ND, dopamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline, and electric-field stimulation (EFS) were investigated. The selective β1-adrenergic receptor antagonists atenolol (0.1 and 1 µ﻿M), betaxolol (1 µ﻿M), and metoprolol (1 µ﻿M) and the unselective β1/β2-adrenergic receptor antagonists propranolol (1 and 10 µ﻿M) and pindolol (10 µ﻿M) caused significant rightward shifts of the concentration-response curve to 6-ND (pA2 6.41, 6.91, 6.75, 6.47, and 5.74; for atenolol, betaxolol, metoprolol, propranolol, and pindolol), but had no effect on dopamine-, noradrenaline-, and adrenaline-induced contractions. The effects of selective β1- and β1/β2-adrenergic receptor antagonists at a higher concentration (atenolol 1 µ﻿M, betaxolol 1 µ﻿M, metoprolol 1 µ﻿M, propranolol 10 µ﻿M, and pindolol 10 µ﻿M) also reduced the EFS-induced RIEVD contractions in control, but not in RIEVD obtained from L-NAME-treated animals. The selective β1-adrenoceptor agonist RO-363, the selective β2-adrenoceptor agonist salbutamol, and the selective β3-adrenoceptor agonist mirabegron, up to 300 µ﻿M, had no effect on the RIEVD tone. The results demonstrate that β1- and β1-/β2-adrenoceptor receptor antagonists act as 6-ND receptor antagonists in RIEVD, further confirming the main role of 6-ND in the RIEVD contractility.