---
reference_id: PMID:38790633
title: Hispidulin Alleviates Mast Cell-Mediated Allergic Airway Inflammation through FcεR1 and Nrf2/HO-1 Signaling Pathway.
authors:
- Jeong S
- Kim YY
- Lee D
- Kim SH
- Lee S
journal: "Antioxidants (Basel, Switzerland)"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.3390/antiox13050528
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:43:37+00:00'
---

# Hispidulin Alleviates Mast Cell-Mediated Allergic Airway Inflammation through FcεR1 and Nrf2/HO-1 Signaling Pathway.
**Authors:** Jeong S, Kim YY, Lee D, Kim SH, Lee S
**Journal:** Antioxidants (Basel, Switzerland) (2024)
**DOI:** [10.3390/antiox13050528](https://doi.org/10.3390/antiox13050528)

## Content

Allergic asthma is a type 2 immune-response-mediated chronic respiratory disease. Mast cell activation influences the pathogenesis and exacerbation of allergic asthma. Therefore, the development of mast cell-targeting pharmacotherapy is important for managing allergic airway inflammation. We investigated the efficacy of hispidulin (HPD), natural flavone, in a mast-cell-mediated ovalbumin (OVA)-induced allergic airway inflammation model. HPD alleviated symptoms of allergic asthma and decreased the levels of immunoglobulin (Ig) E, type 2 inflammation, immune cell infiltration, and mast cell activation in the lung. Furthermore, in vivo analysis confirmed the efficacy of HPD through the evaluation of IgE-mediated allergic responses in a mast cell line. HPD treatment inhibited mast cell degranulation through inhibition of the FcεR1 signaling pathway and suppressed the expression of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-4, IL-6, and IL-13) through suppression of the NF-κB signaling pathway. The antioxidant effects of HPD in activated mast cells were identified through modulation of antioxidant enzymes and the Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathway. In conclusion, HPD may be a potential therapeutic candidate for allergic airway inflammation of asthma and acts by suppressing mast cell activation and oxidative stress.