---
reference_id: PMID:26273805
title: Antithymidylate resistance enables transgene selection and cell survival for T cells in the presence of 5-fluorouracil and antifolates.
authors:
- Rushworth D
- Alpert A
- Santana-Carrero R
- Olivares S
- Spencer D
- Cooper LJ
journal: Gene therapy
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1038/gt.2015.88
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:25:24+00:00'
---

# Antithymidylate resistance enables transgene selection and cell survival for T cells in the presence of 5-fluorouracil and antifolates.
**Authors:** Rushworth D, Alpert A, Santana-Carrero R, Olivares S, Spencer D, Cooper LJ
**Journal:** Gene therapy (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1038/gt.2015.88](https://doi.org/10.1038/gt.2015.88)

## Content

Antithymidylates (AThy) constitute a class of drugs used in the treatment of cancers such as lung, colon, breast and pancreas. These drugs inhibit DNA synthesis by targeting the enzymes dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) and/or thymidylate synthase (TYMS). AThys effectively inhibit cancer cells, and also inhibit T cells, preventing anticancer immunity, which might otherwise develop from AThy-induced cancer destruction. We establish that T cells expressing mutant DHFR--DHFR L22F, F31S (DHFR(FS))--and/or mutant TYMS--TYMS T51S, G52S (TYMS(SS))-effectively survive in toxic concentrations of AThys methotrexate, pemetrexed and 5-fluorouracil. Furthermore, we show that DHFR(FS) permitted rapid selection of an inducible suicide transgene in T cells. These findings demonstrate that AThy resistances prevent AThy cytotoxicity to T cells while permitting selection of important transgenes. This technological development could enhance in vitro and in vivo survival and selection of T-cell therapeutics being designed for a broad range of cancers.