---
reference_id: PMID:28396610
title: Modulation of glucose metabolism by a natural compound from Chloranthus japonicus via activation of AMP-activated protein kinase.
authors:
- Hu R
- Yan H
- Fei X
- Liu H
- Wu J
journal: Scientific reports
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-00925-y
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:00:36+00:00'
---

# Modulation of glucose metabolism by a natural compound from Chloranthus japonicus via activation of AMP-activated protein kinase.
**Authors:** Hu R, Yan H, Fei X, Liu H, Wu J
**Journal:** Scientific reports (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41598-017-00925-y](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-00925-y)

## Content

AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a key sensor and regulator of glucose metabolism. Here, we demonstrated that shizukaol F, a natural compound isolated from Chloranthus japonicus, can activate AMPK and modulate glucose metabolism both in vitro and in vivo. Shizukaol F increased glucose uptake in differentiated C2C12 myotubes by stimulating glucose transporter-4 (GLUT-4) membraned translocation. Treatment of primary mouse hepatocytes with shizukaol F decreased the expression of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 2 (PEPCK), glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) and suppressed hepatic gluconeogenesis. Meanwhile, a single oral dose of shizukaol F reduced gluconeogenesis in C57BL/6 J mice. Further studies indicated that shizukaol F modulates glucose metabolism mainly by AMPKa phosphorylation activity. In addition, we also found that shizukaol F depolarizes the mitochondrial membrane and inhibits respiratory complex I, which may result in AMPK activation. Our results highlight the potential value of shizukaol F as a possible treatment of metabolic syndrome.