---
reference_id: PMID:22888001
title: Induction of cardiac fibrosis by β-blocker in G protein-independent and G protein-coupled receptor kinase 5/β-arrestin2-dependent Signaling pathways.
authors:
- Nakaya M
- Chikura S
- Watari K
- Mizuno N
- Mochinaga K
- Mangmool S
- Koyanagi S
- Ohdo S
- Sato Y
- Ide T
- Nishida M
- Kurose H
journal: The Journal of biological chemistry
year: '2012'
doi: 10.1074/jbc.M112.357871
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:10:13+00:00'
---

# Induction of cardiac fibrosis by β-blocker in G protein-independent and G protein-coupled receptor kinase 5/β-arrestin2-dependent Signaling pathways.
**Authors:** Nakaya M, Chikura S, Watari K, Mizuno N, Mochinaga K, Mangmool S, Koyanagi S, Ohdo S, Sato Y, Ide T, Nishida M, Kurose H
**Journal:** The Journal of biological chemistry (2012)
**DOI:** [10.1074/jbc.M112.357871](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M112.357871)

## Content

G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) have long been known as receptors that activate G protein-dependent cellular signaling pathways. In addition to the G protein-dependent pathways, recent reports have revealed that several ligands called "biased ligands" elicit G protein-independent and β-arrestin-dependent signaling through GPCRs (biased agonism). Several β-blockers are known as biased ligands. All β-blockers inhibit the binding of agonists to the β-adrenergic receptors. In addition to β-blocking action, some β-blockers are reported to induce cellular responses through G protein-independent and β-arrestin-dependent signaling pathways. However, the physiological significance induced by the β-arrestin-dependent pathway remains much to be clarified in vivo. Here, we demonstrate that metoprolol, a β(1)-adrenergic receptor-selective blocker, could induce cardiac fibrosis through a G protein-independent and β-arrestin2-dependent pathway. Metoprolol, a β-blocker, increased the expression of fibrotic genes responsible for cardiac fibrosis in cardiomyocytes. Furthermore, metoprolol induced the interaction between β(1)-adrenergic receptor and β-arrestin2, but not β-arrestin1. The interaction between β(1)-adrenergic receptor and β-arrestin2 by metoprolol was impaired in the G protein-coupled receptor kinase 5 (GRK5)-knockdown cells. Metoprolol-induced cardiac fibrosis led to cardiac dysfunction. However, the metoprolol-induced fibrosis and cardiac dysfunction were not evoked in β-arrestin2- or GRK5-knock-out mice. Thus, metoprolol is a biased ligand that selectively activates a G protein-independent and GRK5/β-arrestin2-dependent pathway, and induces cardiac fibrosis. This study demonstrates the physiological importance of biased agonism, and suggests that G protein-independent and β-arrestin-dependent signaling is a reason for the diversity of the effectiveness of β-blockers.