---
reference_id: PMID:34268560
title: "Altered Dynamic Information Flow through the Cortico-Basal Ganglia Pathways Mediates Parkinson's Disease Symptoms."
authors:
- Chiken S
- Takada M
- Nambu A
journal: "Cerebral cortex (New York, N.Y. : 1991)"
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhab164
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:03:28+00:00'
---

# Altered Dynamic Information Flow through the Cortico-Basal Ganglia Pathways Mediates Parkinson's Disease Symptoms.
**Authors:** Chiken S, Takada M, Nambu A
**Journal:** Cerebral cortex (New York, N.Y. : 1991) (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1093/cercor/bhab164](https://doi.org/10.1093/cercor/bhab164)

## Content

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder caused by dopamine deficiency. To elucidate network-level changes through the cortico-basal ganglia pathways in PD, we recorded neuronal activity in PD monkeys treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. We applied electrical stimulation to the motor cortices and examined responses in the internal (GPi) and external (GPe) segments of the globus pallidus, the output and relay nuclei of the basal ganglia, respectively. In the normal state, cortical stimulation induced a triphasic response composed of early excitation, inhibition, and late excitation in the GPi and GPe. In the PD state, cortically evoked inhibition in the GPi mediated by the cortico-striato-GPi "direct" pathway was largely diminished, whereas late excitation in the GPe mediated by the cortico-striato-GPe-subthalamo (STN)-GPe pathway was elongated. l-DOPA treatment ameliorated PD signs, particularly akinesia/bradykinesia, and normalized cortically evoked responses in both the GPi and GPe. STN blockade by muscimol injection ameliorated the motor deficit and unmasked cortically evoked inhibition in the GPi. These results suggest that information flow through the direct pathway responsible for the initiation of movements is largely reduced in PD and fails to release movements, resulting in akinesia/bradykinesia. Restoration of the information flow through the direct pathway recovers execution of voluntary movements.