---
reference_id: PMID:34572912
title: Crosstalk between PRLR and EGFR/HER2 Signaling Pathways in Breast Cancer.
authors:
- Kavarthapu R
- Anbazhagan R
- Dufau ML
journal: Cancers
year: '2021'
doi: 10.3390/cancers13184685
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:28:27+00:00'
---

# Crosstalk between PRLR and EGFR/HER2 Signaling Pathways in Breast Cancer.
**Authors:** Kavarthapu R, Anbazhagan R, Dufau ML
**Journal:** Cancers (2021)
**DOI:** [10.3390/cancers13184685](https://doi.org/10.3390/cancers13184685)

## Content

Prolactin receptor (PRLR) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR/ERBB) signaling pathways activated by prolactin (PRL) and epidermal growth factor (EGF), have a major role in the mammary gland development and in the etiology of breast cancer, respectively. ER+ breast tumors comprise up to 75% of all breast cancers and 10% of these are HER2+. Elevated levels of PRLR in breast tumors, high circulating levels of PRL and increased expression of ERBB1/2 in patients that become resistant to endocrine therapy have shown to be associated with higher risk of cancer progression. In this review, we examine the role of crosstalk between PRLR and ERBB1/2 signaling pathways in the activation of unliganded ERα, cyclin-D1 and other oncogenic factors (MYC, FOS, JUN) in breast cancer. PRL/PRLR and EGF/EGFR induces phosphorylation of ERα through activation of MEK/MAPK and PI3K/AKT signaling pathways. PRL in breast cancer cells via PRLR/JAK2 can also induce phosphorylation of ERBB2/HER2, which in turn activates the downstream RAS/MEK/ERK pathway required for ERα phosphorylation. EGFR, independent of PRL/PRLR, can activate STAT5 indirectly via c-SRC and drive the expression of target genes involved in cell proliferation and survival. The crosstalk between PRLR and HER2, where PRL induces HER2 signaling can be an alternative route for ERα activation to induce transcription of PRLR and other ER target genes. We believe that overexpression of EGFR/HER2 and PRLR in breast tumors could maximize the actions of their ligands, and further induce cell proliferation promoting malignancy. This could also explain the resistance to endocrine therapy resulting in tumor growth.