---
reference_id: PMID:38924386
title: "Type 1 diabetes mellitus and sperm quality: A case-control study."
authors:
- Delbarba A
- Anelli V
- Bambini F
- Buoso C
- Facondo P
- Gatta E
- Girelli A
- Cappelli C
- Ferlin A
journal: Andrology
year: '2025'
doi: 10.1111/andr.13681
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:05:00+00:00'
---

# Type 1 diabetes mellitus and sperm quality: A case-control study.
**Authors:** Delbarba A, Anelli V, Bambini F, Buoso C, Facondo P, Gatta E, Girelli A, Cappelli C, Ferlin A
**Journal:** Andrology (2025)
**DOI:** [10.1111/andr.13681](https://doi.org/10.1111/andr.13681)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** The potential impact of diabetes mellitus type 1 (DM1) on male fertility is currently poorly defined. Hyperglycaemia and insulin deficiency may affect spermatogenesis. Some evidence suggests that men with DM1 have a significant reduction in progressive sperm motility, sperm morphology and semen volume, without significant changes in sperm concentration and count, but definite data are lacking.

**OBJECTIVES:** To evaluate the impact of DM1 on clinical parameters related to male fertility and semen analysis.

**MATERIALS AND METHODS:** We compared a court of 42 male DM1 patients with 43 nondiabetic subjects overlapping in age and remaining clinical data in an observational case-control study. All subjects underwent a comprehensive andrological reproductive evaluation, including medical history, physical examination, and semen analysis. We collected biochemical data in all patients with DM1, while diabetic patients with any alteration in semen parameters underwent sperm culture and scrotal ultrasound. In addition, all men completed the IIEF-5 questionnaire (International Index of Erectile Function-5) and the AMS (Aging Male Symptom score) questionnaire.

**RESULTS:** Patients with DM1 had a higher prevalence of infertility, erectile dysfunction and worse semen parameters compared with controls. In particular, semen volume, total sperm count, and total and progressive sperm motility were significantly lower (p < 0.001, p = 0.003, p = 0.048, and p = 0.022 respectively). In addition, the rate of semen anti-sperm antibody positivity, the AMS score and FSH levels were higher.

**DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION:** Several mechanisms may contribute to these semen alterations in DM1 patients, such as oxidative damage to spermatogenesis, seminal infections and pelvic neurological changes. These data suggest that patients with DM1 should be counselled from an andrological-reproductive point of view.