---
reference_id: PMID:11096454
title: The neutralization of type I IFN biologic actions by anti-IFNAR-2 monoclonal antibodies is not entirely due to inhibition of Jak-Stat tyrosine phosphorylation.
authors:
- Novick D
- Nabioullin RR
- Ragsdale W
- McKenna S
- Weiser W
- Garone L
- Burkins C
- Kim SH
- Rubinstein M
- Tepper MA
- Arulanandam AR
journal: "Journal of interferon & cytokine research : the official journal of the International Society for Interferon and Cytokine Research"
year: '2000'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:25:06+00:00'
---

# The neutralization of type I IFN biologic actions by anti-IFNAR-2 monoclonal antibodies is not entirely due to inhibition of Jak-Stat tyrosine phosphorylation.
**Authors:** Novick D, Nabioullin RR, Ragsdale W, McKenna S, Weiser W, Garone L, Burkins C, Kim SH, Rubinstein M, Tepper MA, Arulanandam AR
**Journal:** Journal of interferon & cytokine research : the official journal of the International Society for Interferon and Cytokine Research (2000)

## Content

A panel of monoclonal antibodies (mAb) derived against human interferon-alpha/beta receptor-2 (IFNAR-2) was evaluated for their ability to antagonize the biologic effects of type 1 interferons (IFN-alpha1, IFN-alpha2a, and IFN-beta). Anti-IFNAR-2 mAb 117.7, 35.9, 53.2, and 51.44 neutralized type I IFN-mediated antiviral, antiproliferative, and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I upregulation functions. However, only mAb 51.44 neutralized IFN-alpha2a and IFN-beta-mediated natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity. In BIAcore and cell binding studies, only mAb 51.44 and 234.28 inhibited IFN-alpha2a and IFN-beta binding to its receptor. The receptor blockade by mAb 51.44 and 234.28 resulted in the inhibition of IFN-alpha2a and IFN-beta-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of Jak1, Tyk2, Stat1/2/3, and IFNAR-1/2 and inhibition of IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3) formation. mAb 117.7, 35.9, and 53.2, although antagonists of IFN's biologic activities, did not block the binding of IFN-alpha/beta to its receptor. The 117.7 mAb, representative of this class of receptor nonblocking mAb, induced hyper-tyrosine phosphorylation of IFNAR-2 in the presence of IFN-alpha/beta but did not inhibit IFN-alpha/beta-induced Jak-Stat tyrosine phosphorylation and ISGF3 complex formation. These results show that the neutralization of type I IFN biologic actions by anti-IFNAR-2 mAb cannot be entirely explained by inhibition of Jak-Stat tyrosine phosphorylation.