---
reference_id: PMID:20606642
title: "A phase I study of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase gene therapy for Parkinson's disease."
authors:
- Muramatsu S
- Fujimoto K
- Kato S
- Mizukami H
- Asari S
- Ikeguchi K
- Kawakami T
- Urabe M
- Kume A
- Sato T
- Watanabe E
- Ozawa K
- Nakano I
journal: "Molecular therapy : the journal of the American Society of Gene Therapy"
year: '2010'
doi: 10.1038/mt.2010.135
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:03:14+00:00'
---

# A phase I study of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase gene therapy for Parkinson's disease.
**Authors:** Muramatsu S, Fujimoto K, Kato S, Mizukami H, Asari S, Ikeguchi K, Kawakami T, Urabe M, Kume A, Sato T, Watanabe E, Ozawa K, Nakano I
**Journal:** Molecular therapy : the journal of the American Society of Gene Therapy (2010)
**DOI:** [10.1038/mt.2010.135](https://doi.org/10.1038/mt.2010.135)

## Content

Gene transfer of dopamine-synthesizing enzymes into the striatal neurons has led to behavioral recovery in animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD). We evaluated the safety, tolerability, and potential efficacy of adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector-mediated gene delivery of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) into the putamen of PD patients. Six PD patients were evaluated at baseline and at 6 months, using multiple measures, including the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), motor state diaries, and positron emission tomography (PET) with 6-[(18)F]fluoro-L-m-tyrosine (FMT), a tracer for AADC. The short-duration response to levodopa was measured in three patients. The procedure was well tolerated. Six months after surgery, motor functions in the OFF-medication state improved an average of 46% based on the UPDRS scores, without apparent changes in the short-duration response to levodopa. PET revealed a 56% increase in FMT activity, which persisted up to 96 weeks. Our findings provide class IV evidence regarding the safety and efficacy of AADC gene therapy and warrant further evaluation in a randomized, controlled, phase 2 setting.