---
reference_id: PMID:38476024
title: CARM1 drives triple-negative breast cancer progression by coordinating with HIF1A.
authors:
- Feng D
- Gao J
- Liu R
- Liu W
- Gao T
- Yang Y
- Zhang D
- Yang T
- Yin X
- Yu H
- Huang W
- Wang Y
journal: "Protein & cell"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1093/procel/pwae010
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:16:51+00:00'
---

# CARM1 drives triple-negative breast cancer progression by coordinating with HIF1A.
**Authors:** Feng D, Gao J, Liu R, Liu W, Gao T, Yang Y, Zhang D, Yang T, Yin X, Yu H, Huang W, Wang Y
**Journal:** Protein & cell (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1093/procel/pwae010](https://doi.org/10.1093/procel/pwae010)

## Content

Coactivator-associated arginine methyltransferase 1 (CARM1) promotes the development and metastasis of estrogen receptor alpha (ERα)-positive breast cancer. The function of CARM1 in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is still unclear and requires further exploration. Here, we report that CARM1 promotes proliferation, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and stemness in TNBC. CARM1 is upregulated in multiple cancers and its expression correlates with breast cancer progression. Genome-wide analysis of CARM1 showed that CARM1 is recruited by hypoxia-inducible factor-1 subunit alpha (HIF1A) and occupy the promoters of CDK4, Cyclin D1, β-Catenin, HIF1A, MALAT1, and SIX1 critically involved in cell cycle, HIF-1 signaling pathway, Wnt signaling pathway, VEGF signaling pathway, thereby modulating the proliferation and invasion of TNBC cells. We demonstrated that CARM1 is physically associated with and directly interacts with HIF1A. Moreover, we found that ellagic acid, an inhibitor of CARM1, can suppress the proliferation and invasion of TNBC by directly inhibiting CDK4 expression. Our research has determined the molecular basis of CARM1 carcinogenesis in TNBC and its effective natural inhibitor, which may provide new ideas and drugs for cancer therapy.