---
reference_id: PMID:24362948
title: An evidence for the transcriptional regulation of iodothyronine deiodinase 2 by progesterone in ovarectomized rats.
authors:
- Awad HA
- Alrefaie ZA
journal: Journal of physiology and biochemistry
year: '2014'
doi: 10.1007/s13105-013-0307-y
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:07:30+00:00'
---

# An evidence for the transcriptional regulation of iodothyronine deiodinase 2 by progesterone in ovarectomized rats.
**Authors:** Awad HA, Alrefaie ZA
**Journal:** Journal of physiology and biochemistry (2014)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s13105-013-0307-y](https://doi.org/10.1007/s13105-013-0307-y)

## Content

Recent literature lacks studies on the effects of progesterone withdrawal on peripheral conversion of thyroxin (T4) into triiodothyronine (T3) by iodothyronine deiodinase 2 (D2) in different body tissues. The present study aimed to assess the possible relation of progesterone to T4, T3, and D2 in ovarectomized rats. Thirty female Wistar rats were included into a sham-operated control group and an ovarectomized group. Four months following the surgical procedures, measurements of estradiol, progesterone, free T4, free T3, and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) were done. Also, estradiol/progesterone and T4/T3 ratios were calculated. Tissue homogenates from the kidney, liver, brain, thyroid, mandible, and femur were used to assess expression of D2 mRNA. The estradiol/progesterone ratio showed a significant increase in ovarectomized rats. T4 showed a significant increase in contrast to T3 which showed a highly significant decrease following ovariectomy. The T4/T3 ratio was significantly increased in ovarectomized rats. In addition, D2 expression was significantly attenuated in all tissue homogenates of the ovarectomized group. The present work showed a significant positive correlation between T4 and T3 in the sham-operated control rats, which was abolished in ovarectomized rats. A negative significant correlation between progesterone and T4 was revealed in ovarectomized rats. There was also a significant positive correlation between progesterone and D2 expression in the ovarectomized group. The results of the present study hypothesize that progesterone withdrawal may underlie the decrement in D2 expression, with consequent reduction in the peripheral conversion of T4 into T3 leading to a hypothyroid state.