---
reference_id: PMID:39278440
title: Effects and mechanisms of Polygonati Rhizoma polysaccharide on potassium oxonate and hypoxanthine-induced hyperuricemia in mice.
authors:
- Zhang N
- Zhang B
- Chen X
- Zhang Y
- Wang Y
- Lu S
- Zhang H
- Chen Y
- Jiang H
- Zhou H
journal: International journal of biological macromolecules
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.135550
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:08:40+00:00'
---

# Effects and mechanisms of Polygonati Rhizoma polysaccharide on potassium oxonate and hypoxanthine-induced hyperuricemia in mice.
**Authors:** Zhang N, Zhang B, Chen X, Zhang Y, Wang Y, Lu S, Zhang H, Chen Y, Jiang H, Zhou H
**Journal:** International journal of biological macromolecules (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.135550](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.135550)

## Content

Hyperuricemia, a prevalent metabolic disturbance intricately linked to gout and chronic kidney disease (CKD), may be relieved by traditional Chinese medicine Polygonati Rhizoma. It is derived from the rhizomes of Polygonatum sibiricum, Polygonatum kingianum, and Polygonatum cyrtonema, which are rich in polysaccharides and are effective hyperuricemia alleviators. This study investigated the potential of Polygonatum sibiricum polysaccharide (PSP) in managing hyperuricemia. PSP (125, 250, and 500 mg/kg, i.g.) or allopurinol was administered to hyperuricemia mice treated with potassium oxonate and hypoxanthine for two weeks. PSP effectively decreased serum uric acid levels by inhibiting xanthine oxidase and adenosine deaminase activity and expression in the liver and modulating uric acid-related transporters (URAT1, OAT1, and OAT3) in the kidney. PSP lowered serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen levels, alleviating hyperuricemia-induced renal tubular epithelial-mesenchymal fibrosis. In vitro, PSP promoted mitochondrial biogenesis via the PGC-1α/NRF1/TFAM pathway, suppressed reactive oxygen species production, and prevented cytochrome C and dynamin-related protein 1 dysregulation in HK-2 cells. Furthermore, PSPA (Mw 4.0 kDa) and PSPB (Mw 112.2 kDa) isolated from PSP exhibit different uric acid-lowering mechanisms. In conclusion, our findings highlight the therapeutic potential of PSP and its nephroprotective effects in hyperuricemia, thereby supporting its development as a therapeutic agent for hyperuricemia.