---
reference_id: PMID:21429248
title: Epilepsy (partial).
authors:
- Maguire M
- Marson AG
- Ramaratnam S
journal: BMJ clinical evidence
year: '2010'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:38:57+00:00'
---

# Epilepsy (partial).
**Authors:** Maguire M, Marson AG, Ramaratnam S
**Journal:** BMJ clinical evidence (2010)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** About 3% of people will be diagnosed with epilepsy during their lifetime, but about 70% of people with epilepsy eventually go into remission.

**METHODS AND OUTCOMES:** We conducted a systematic review and aimed to answer the following clinical questions: What are the effects of starting antiepileptic drug treatment following a single seizure? What are the effects of drug monotherapy in people with partial epilepsy? What are the effects of additional drug treatments in people with drug-resistant partial epilepsy? What is the risk of relapse in people in remission when withdrawing antiepileptic drugs? What are the effects of behavioural and psychological treatments for people with epilepsy? What are the effects of surgery in people with drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy? We searched: Medline, Embase, The Cochrane Library, and other important databases up to July 2009 (Clinical Evidence reviews are updated periodically; please check our website for the most up-to-date version of this review). We included harms alerts from relevant organisations such as the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA).

**RESULTS:** We found 83 systematic reviews, RCTs, or observational studies that met our inclusion criteria. We performed a GRADE evaluation of the quality of evidence for interventions.

**CONCLUSIONS:** In this systematic review we present information relating to the effectiveness and safety of the following interventions: antiepileptic drugs after a single seizure; monotherapy for partial epilepsy using carbamazepine, gabapentin, lamotrigine, levetiracetam, phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate, or topiramate; addition of second-line drugs for drug-resistant partial epilepsy (allopurinol, eslicarbazepine, gabapentin, lacosamide, lamotrigine, levetiracetam, losigamone, oxcarbazepine, retigabine, tiagabine, topiramate, vigabatrin, or zonisamide); antiepileptic drug withdrawal for people with partial or generalised epilepsy who are in remission; behavioural and psychological treatments for partial or generalised epilepsy (biofeedback, cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), educational programmes, family counselling, relaxation therapy (alone or plus behavioural modification therapy, yoga); and surgery for drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy ( lesionectomy, temporal lobectomy, vagus nerve stimulation as adjunctive therapy).