---
reference_id: PMID:9076662
title: Simvastatin impairs mitogen-induced proliferation of malignant B-lymphocytes from humans--in vitro and in vivo studies.
authors:
- Vitols S
- Angelin B
- Juliusson G
journal: Lipids
year: '1997'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:36:08+00:00'
---

# Simvastatin impairs mitogen-induced proliferation of malignant B-lymphocytes from humans--in vitro and in vivo studies.
**Authors:** Vitols S, Angelin B, Juliusson G
**Journal:** Lipids (1997)

## Content

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells express lower low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor activity and higher 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase activity than normal mononuclear blood cells indicating that CLL cells may depend on cholesterol synthesis for their proliferation. We studied the effects of competitive inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase on malignant lymphocyte proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Tumor B-cells from 13 patients with CLL, hairy cell leukemia, or immunoblastic B-cell lymphoma were cultured for 4 d in the presence of B-cell mitogens and cholesterol synthesis inhibitors. Simvastatin and lovastatin suppressed, in a concentration-dependent manner, the mitogen-induced cellular thymidin uptake in medium with 10% human AB-serum or lipoprotein-deficient serum. Pravastatin was active only in medium with lipoprotein-deficient serum. Ten previously untreated patients with CLL received simvastatin orally, 40 mg daily for 12 wk. Mean reductions in total plasma and LDL cholesterol were 30% (range 9-46%) and 37% (range 16-63%), respectively. Cells from four patients showed moderate to minor increases in the degradation rate of 1251-LDL suggesting that the need for exogenous cholesterol had increased, three patients showed an increase in HMG-CoA reductase activity, and the cells from one patient showed both. There was no significant change in the clinical disease status during medication. However, four of the ten patients developed a therapy-demanding progressive disease during the subsequent year. Further clinical studies with cholesterol synthesis inhibitors in leukemia are warranted.