---
reference_id: PMID:38645656
title: "Pituitary Stalk Interruption Syndrome with Excessive Height Growth Combined with Congenital Absence of the Uterus and Ovaries: A Rare Case Report and Review of the Literature."
authors:
- Wu R
- Xu J
journal: "Diabetes, metabolic syndrome and obesity : targets and therapy"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.2147/DMSO.S456678
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:06:53+00:00'
---

# Pituitary Stalk Interruption Syndrome with Excessive Height Growth Combined with Congenital Absence of the Uterus and Ovaries: A Rare Case Report and Review of the Literature.
**Authors:** Wu R, Xu J
**Journal:** Diabetes, metabolic syndrome and obesity : targets and therapy (2024)
**DOI:** [10.2147/DMSO.S456678](https://doi.org/10.2147/DMSO.S456678)

## Content

**AIM:** Pituitary stalk interruption syndrome is a relatively rare disease. Patients with this disease usually have different degrees of short stature in adulthood. The purpose of this case report is to highlight a special case of unusually elongated limbs with excessive height growth and congenital absence of uterus and ovary, so as to improve clinicians understanding of the atypical manifestations of pituitary stalk interruption syndrome and provide reference for the clinical diagnosis and treatment of the disease.

**CASE PRESENTATION:** The 30-year-old female patient exhibited disproportionate growth in height, with a significant increase from 140 cm at the age of 16 to 180 cm currently. Physical examination revealed widened bilateral eye fissures, underdeveloped secondary sexual characteristics, and absence of menstruation. The patient 's parents are cousins, belonging to consanguineous marriage. The patient 's hypoglycemia provocation test suggested the lack of growth hormone and cortisol. Gonadorelin provocation test suggested hypogonadism, and thyroid function test showed hypothyroidism. Pituitary MRI plain scan and enhancement suggested pituitary stalk interruption syndrome, and abdominal and urinary color Doppler ultrasound suggested no echo of uterus and bilateral appendages in the pelvic cavity. The karyotype of peripheral blood was 45, X[3] / 46, XX [117]. The patient was diagnosed with pituitary stalk interruption syndrome, congenital uterine and ovarian deficiency, bone overgrowth, hypothyroidism and secondary osteoporosis. During hospitalization, the symptoms were improved and discharged after hormone replacement therapy such as physiological dose of glucocorticoid, estradiol valerate tablets and levothyroxine sodium tablets. Now the patient is still in our hospital endocrinology outpatient follow-up, no special discomfort.

**CONCLUSION:** The patient had special clinical manifestations and was clinically confirmed as pituitary stalk interruption syndrome. The patient 's height continues to grow in the absence of growth hormone in the body, and its mechanism remains to be further studied.