---
reference_id: PMID:30467747
title: The modulatory role of low concentrations of bisphenol A on tamoxifen-induced proliferation and apoptosis in breast cancer cells.
authors:
- Huang B
- Luo N
- Wu X
- Xu Z
- Wang X
- Pan X
journal: Environmental science and pollution research international
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1007/s11356-018-3780-6
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:17:30+00:00'
---

# The modulatory role of low concentrations of bisphenol A on tamoxifen-induced proliferation and apoptosis in breast cancer cells.
**Authors:** Huang B, Luo N, Wu X, Xu Z, Wang X, Pan X
**Journal:** Environmental science and pollution research international (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s11356-018-3780-6](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11356-018-3780-6)

## Content

Selective estrogen receptor modulators such as tamoxifen (TAM) significantly reduce the risks of developing estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancer. Low concentrations (nanomolar range) of bisphenol A (BPA) shows estrogenic effects and further promotes the proliferation of hormone-dependent breast cancer cells. However, whether or not BPA can influence TAM-treatment resistance in breast cancer has not drawn much attention. In the current study, low concentrations of BPA reduced TAM-induced cytotoxicity of MCF-7 cells, which was proved by the suppression of cell apoptosis, transition of cell cycle from G1 to S phase, and upregulation of cyclin D1 and ERα. Simultaneously, the mRNA levels of estrogen-related receptor γ (ERRγ) and its coactivators, peroxisome proliferation-activated receptor γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α), and PGC-1β, were increased. However, the similar effects were not observed in MDA-MB-231 cells. Our results indicated that low concentrations of BPA decreased the sensitivity of TAM in MCF-7 cells rather than in MDA-MB-231 cells. These different actions likely involved the interaction of relative receptors and coactivators. This study provided a possible support that the exposure of BPA in environmental media may potentially induce TAM resistance to breast cancer treatment.