---
reference_id: PMID:33662475
title: Response of the thyroid axis and appetite-regulating peptides to fasting and overfeeding in goldfish (Carassius auratus).
authors:
- Deal CK
- Volkoff H
journal: Molecular and cellular endocrinology
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1016/j.mce.2021.111229
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:08:21+00:00'
---

# Response of the thyroid axis and appetite-regulating peptides to fasting and overfeeding in goldfish (Carassius auratus).
**Authors:** Deal CK, Volkoff H
**Journal:** Molecular and cellular endocrinology (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.mce.2021.111229](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mce.2021.111229)

## Content

The thyroid axis is a major regulator of metabolism and energy homeostasis in vertebrates. There is conclusive evidence in mammals for the involvement of the thyroid axis in the regulation of food intake, but in fish, this link is unclear. In order to assess the effects of nutritional status on the thyroid axis in goldfish, Carassius auratus, we examined brain and peripheral transcripts of genes associated with the thyroid axis [thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptors (TRH-R type 1 and 2), thyroid stimulating hormone beta (TSHβ), deiodinase enzymes (DIO2, DIO3) and UDP-glucoronsyltransferase (UGT)] and appetite regulators [neuropeptide Y (NPY), proopiomelanocortin (POMC), agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and cholecystokinin (CCK)] in fasted and overfed fish for 7 and 14 day periods. We show that the thyroid axis responds to overfeeding, with an increase of brain TRH and TSHβ mRNA expression after 14 days, suggesting that overfeeding might activate the thyroid axis. In fasted fish, hepatic DIO3 and UGT transcripts were downregulated from 7 to 14 days, suggesting a time-dependent inhibition of thyroid hormone degradation pathways. Nutritional status had no effect on circulating levels of thyroid hormone. Central appetite-regulating peptides exhibited temporal changes in mRNA expression, with decreased expression of the appetite-inhibiting peptide POMC from 7 to 14 days for both fasted and overfed fish, with no change in central NPY or AgRP, or intestinal CCK transcript expression. Compared to control fish, fasting increased AgRP mRNA expression at both 7 and 14 days, and POMC expression was higher than controls only at 7 days. Our results indicate that nutritional status time-dependently affects the thyroid axis and appetite regulators, although no clear correlation between thyroid physiology and appetite regulators could be established. Our study helps to fill a knowledge gap in current fish endocrinological research on the effects of energy balance on thyroid metabolism and function.