---
reference_id: PMID:29792724
title: A systematic understanding of signaling by ErbB2 in cancer using phosphoproteomics.
authors:
- Sidhanth C
- Manasa P
- Krishnapriya S
- Sneha S
- Bindhya S
- Nagare RP
- Garg M
- Ganesan TS
journal: "Biochemistry and cell biology = Biochimie et biologie cellulaire"
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1139/bcb-2017-0020
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:27:51+00:00'
---

# A systematic understanding of signaling by ErbB2 in cancer using phosphoproteomics.
**Authors:** Sidhanth C, Manasa P, Krishnapriya S, Sneha S, Bindhya S, Nagare RP, Garg M, Ganesan TS
**Journal:** Biochemistry and cell biology = Biochimie et biologie cellulaire (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1139/bcb-2017-0020](https://doi.org/10.1139/bcb-2017-0020)

## Content

ErbB2 is an important receptor tyrosine kinase and a member of the ErbB family. Although it does not have a specific ligand, it transmits signals downstream by heterodimerization with other receptors in the family. It plays a major role in a variety of cellular responses like proliferation, differentiation, and adhesion. ErbB2 is amplified at the DNA level in breast cancer (20%-30%) and gastric cancer (10%-20%), and trastuzumab is effective as a therapeutic antibody. This review is a critical analysis of the currently published data on the signaling pathways of ErbB2 and the interacting proteins. It also focuses on the techniques that are currently available to evaluate the entire phosphoproteome following activation of ErbB2. Identification of new and relevant phosphoproteins can not only serve as new therapeutic targets but also as a surrogate marker in patients to assess the activity of compounds that inhibit ErbB2. Overall, such analysis will improve understanding of signaling by ErbB2.