---
reference_id: PMID:7525031
title: "Cation fluxes and cation channels in outer segment membranes of bovine retinal rods: contamination by antibiotics applied to cattle?"
authors:
- Lopez-Escalera R
- French RJ
- Schnetkamp PP
journal: Canadian journal of physiology and pharmacology
year: '1994'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:29:44+00:00'
---

# Cation fluxes and cation channels in outer segment membranes of bovine retinal rods: contamination by antibiotics applied to cattle?
**Authors:** Lopez-Escalera R, French RJ, Schnetkamp PP
**Journal:** Canadian journal of physiology and pharmacology (1994)

## Content

Membrane vesicles were prepared from intact rod outer segments (ROSs) isolated from bovine retinas and were examined for the presence of cation-selective conductances. We performed macroscopic flux measurements in an ensemble of ROS membrane vesicles and single-channel measurements after fusion of ROS membrane vesicles with planar bilayer membranes. Two K(+)-permeable conductances were observed, the well-established cyclic GMP (cGMP) gated channel and an apparently new K+ channel with some unusual properties. Flux and single-channel data showed that the new conductance passed K+, Rb+, and Cs+ equally well but was much less permeable to Na+, Li+ and protons. Single-channel measurements revealed a linear current-voltage relationship and three unitary conductance states of 15, 11, and 8 pS, using symmetric 150 mM KCl solutions. Measured macroscopic K+ fluxes varied considerably among different preparations, suggesting some unknown regulation of the channel; the variability appeared to arise from variation in the channel's open probability, not the unit conductance or the number of channels present. The recorded single-channel events and the selectivity data are remarkably similar to those reported for antibiotic channel-forming ionophore gramicidin. We believe that the variability in both macroscopic permeability experiments and single-channel experiments may reflect a variable contamination with gramicidin applied to the animals as the topical antibiotic V-Sporin.