---
reference_id: PMID:32710210
title: "Use of translational modeling and simulation for quantitative comparison of PF-06804103, a new generation HER2 ADC, with Trastuzumab-DM1."
authors:
- Betts A
- Clark T
- Jasper P
- Tolsma J
- van der Graaf PH
- Graziani EI
- Rosfjord E
- Sung M
- Ma D
- Barletta F
journal: Journal of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1007/s10928-020-09702-3
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:34:22+00:00'
---

# Use of translational modeling and simulation for quantitative comparison of PF-06804103, a new generation HER2 ADC, with Trastuzumab-DM1.
**Authors:** Betts A, Clark T, Jasper P, Tolsma J, van der Graaf PH, Graziani EI, Rosfjord E, Sung M, Ma D, Barletta F
**Journal:** Journal of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s10928-020-09702-3](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10928-020-09702-3)

## Content

A modeling and simulation approach was used for quantitative comparison of a new generation HER2 antibody drug conjugate (ADC, PF-06804103) with trastuzumab-DM1 (T-DM1). To compare preclinical efficacy, the pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamic (PD) relationship of PF-06804103 and T-DM1 was determined across a range of mouse tumor xenograft models, using a tumor growth inhibition model. The tumor static concentration was assigned as the minimal efficacious concentration. PF-06804103 was concluded to be more potent than T-DM1 across cell lines studied. TSCs ranged from 1.0 to 9.8 µg/mL (n = 7) for PF-06804103 and from 4.7 to 29 µg/mL (n = 5) for T-DM1. Two experimental models which were resistant to T-DM1, responded to PF-06804103 treatment. A mechanism-based target mediated drug disposition (TMDD) model was used to predict the human PK of PF-06804103. This model was constructed and validated based on T-DM1 which has non-linear PK at doses administered in the clinic, driven by binding to shed HER2. Non-linear PK is predicted for PF-06804103 in the clinic and is dependent upon circulating HER2 extracellular domain (ECD) concentrations. The models were translated to human and suggested greater efficacy for PF-06804103 compared to T-DM1. In conclusion, a fit-for-purpose translational PK/PD strategy for ADCs is presented and used to compare a new generation HER2 ADC with T-DM1.