---
reference_id: PMID:35275226
title: "The effects of Vilazodone, YL-0919 and Vortioxetine in hemiparkinsonian rats."
authors:
- Smith S
- Sergio J
- Coyle M
- Elder K
- Centner A
- Cohen S
- Terry M
- Lipari N
- Glinski J
- Wheelis E
- Budrow C
- Bishop C
journal: Psychopharmacology
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1007/s00213-022-06078-9
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:02:24+00:00'
---

# The effects of Vilazodone, YL-0919 and Vortioxetine in hemiparkinsonian rats.
**Authors:** Smith S, Sergio J, Coyle M, Elder K, Centner A, Cohen S, Terry M, Lipari N, Glinski J, Wheelis E, Budrow C, Bishop C
**Journal:** Psychopharmacology (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s00213-022-06078-9](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00213-022-06078-9)

## Content

Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disease often characterized by motor deficits and most commonly treated with dopamine replacement therapy. Despite its benefits, chronic use of L-DOPA results in abnormal involuntary movements known as L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Growing evidence shows that with burgeoning dopamine cell loss, neuroplasticity in the serotonin system leads to the development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia through the unregulated uptake, conversion, and release of L-DOPA-derived dopamine into the striatum. Previous studies have shown that coincident 5-HT1A agonism and serotonin transporter inhibition may have anti-dyskinetic potential. Despite this, few studies have explicitly focused on targeting both 5-HT1A and the serotonin transporter. The present study compares the 5-HT compounds Vilazodone, YL-0919, and Vortioxetine which purportedly work as simultaneous 5-HT1A receptor agonists and SERT blockers. To do so, adult female Sprague Dawley rats were rendered hemiparkinsonian and treated daily for two weeks with L-DOPA to produce stable dyskinesia. The abnormal involuntary movements and forehand adjusting step tests were utilized as measurements for L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and motor performance in a within-subjects design. Lesion efficacy was determined by analysis of striatal monoamines via high-performance liquid chromatography. Compounds selective for 5-HT1A/SERT target sites including Vilazodone and Vortioxetine significantly reduced L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia without compromising L-DOPA pro-motor efficacy. In contrast, YL-0919 failed to reduce L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, with no effects on L-DOPA-related improvements. Collectively, this work supports pharmacological targeting of 5-HT1A/SERT to reduce L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Additionally, this further provides evidence for Vilazodone and Vortioxetine, FDA-approved compounds, as potential adjunct therapeutics for L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia management in Parkinson's patients.