---
reference_id: PMID:9409710
title: Differential effects of a benzodiazepine on synaptic transmissions in rat hippocampal neurons in vitro.
authors:
- Sato Y
- Fujito Y
- Aoki M
journal: Brain research
year: '1997'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:32:57+00:00'
---

# Differential effects of a benzodiazepine on synaptic transmissions in rat hippocampal neurons in vitro.
**Authors:** Sato Y, Fujito Y, Aoki M
**Journal:** Brain research (1997)

## Content

The effects of midazolam, one of the most popular benzodiazepines, on synaptic transmissions were compared with intracellular recordings between CA1 pyramidal cells (CA1-PCs) and dentate gyrus granule cells (DG-GCs) in rat hippocampal slices. First, we studied the effects of midazolam on orthodromically evoked spikes, membrane properties and synaptic potentials. Secondly, the effects of a GABA(A) receptor agonist, muscimol, were examined on membrane properties to determine whether or not the densities of GABA(A) receptors are different between CA1-PCs and DG-GCs. Midazolam (75 microM) markedly depressed orthodromically evoked spikes in CA1-PCs, compared with those in DG-GCs. A GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline (10 microM), almost completely antagonized the depressant effects of midazolam on spike generation in CA1-PCs, whereas it had little effect on midazolam in dentate gyrus granule cells. Midazolam produced either depolarizing or hyperpolarizing effects on resting membrane potentials (Vm) with an input resistance decrease in CA1-PCs, whereas it produced depolarized Vm in DG-GCs. Midazolam significantly increased the amplitude of monosynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in CA1-PCs, whereas midazolam slightly decreased these in DG-GCs. Midazolam significantly decreased the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials both in CA1-PCs and DG-GCs. Muscimol (100 microM) produced either depolarizing or hyperpolarizing effects on Vm with an input resistance decrease in CA1-PCs, and it depolarized Vm with an input resistance decrease in DG-GCs. These results demonstrate that midazolam has differential effects on excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmissions in hippocampal neurons. The mechanism of this difference could be partly due to the different types of GABA(A) receptors between CA1-PCs and DG-GCs.