---
reference_id: PMID:38492092
title: "Comparison of the efficacy and safety of benzbromarone and febuxostat in gout and hyperuricemia: a systematic review and meta-analysis."
authors:
- Wu F
- Chen L
- Du Y
journal: Clinical rheumatology
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1007/s10067-024-06933-4
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:08:54+00:00'
---

# Comparison of the efficacy and safety of benzbromarone and febuxostat in gout and hyperuricemia: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
**Authors:** Wu F, Chen L, Du Y
**Journal:** Clinical rheumatology (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s10067-024-06933-4](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10067-024-06933-4)

## Content

**OBJECTIVE:** Urate-lowering therapy (ULT) is widely recognized as the primary treatment for hyperuricemia and gout. Xanthine oxidase inhibitors (XOI), particularly febuxostat, have gained popularity as a frontline approach. However, the divergent efficacy and safety between febuxostat and the traditional ULT drug, benzbromarone, remain poorly understood. This knowledge gap necessitates a comprehensive analysis and evidence update to guide drug selection for physicians and patients.

**METHOD:** We conducted a systematic analysis by extracting relevant clinical studies from four medical literature databases. Forest plots, funnel plots, sensitivity analysis, Egger's test, and subgroup analysis were utilized to compare relevant indicators.

**RESULTS:** The advantages and disadvantages of the two drugs were evaluated based on various indicators such as serum uric acid (SUA), triglyceride (TG), urinary uric acid (UUA), white blood cell count (WBC), total cholesterol (TC), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), and serum creatinine (SC). Benzbromarone demonstrated better efficacy in rapidly reducing SUA levels and inhibiting inflammation for hyperuricemia and gout patients. Febuxostat was slightly less effective in lowering SUA, but there was no significant difference in its impact on liver and kidney function after long-term use.

**CONCLUSION:** This study highlights the superiority of benzbromarone in rapidly reducing SUA and inhibiting inflammation. Febuxostat shows comparable effects on liver and kidney function after long-term use. These findings provide valuable insights for clinicians and patients in drug selection. Key Points • Benzbromarone stands out as a highly effective treatment for hyperuricemia and gout, offering rapid reduction of serum uric acid levels and potent anti-inflammatory effects. • When it comes to long-term use, febuxostat demonstrates comparable effects on liver and kidney function. This provides reassurance for patients who require extended treatment duration. • Moreover, our study goes beyond previous research by presenting a more comprehensive and detailed analysis.