---
reference_id: PMID:26248960
title: Basal Protein Expression Is Associated With Worse Outcome and Trastuzamab Resistance in HER2+ Invasive Breast Cancer.
authors:
- Chung A
- Choi M
- Han BC
- Bose S
- Zhang X
- Medina-Kauwe L
- Sims J
- Murali R
- Taguiam M
- Varda M
- Schiff R
- Giuliano A
- Cui X
journal: Clinical breast cancer
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1016/j.clbc.2015.06.001
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:35:16+00:00'
---

# Basal Protein Expression Is Associated With Worse Outcome and Trastuzamab Resistance in HER2+ Invasive Breast Cancer.
**Authors:** Chung A, Choi M, Han BC, Bose S, Zhang X, Medina-Kauwe L, Sims J, Murali R, Taguiam M, Varda M, Schiff R, Giuliano A, Cui X
**Journal:** Clinical breast cancer (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.clbc.2015.06.001](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clbc.2015.06.001)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** We investigated the effect of basal protein expression on trastuzamab response in patients with HER2-positive (HER2(+)) breast cancer who received trastuzamab (T) and in HER2(+) breast cancer cell lines.

**PATIENTS AND METHODS:** Expression of cytokeratin (CK) 5/6, CK14, and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) was evaluated after immunohistochemical staining in paraffin-embedded tissue of 97 patients with stage I to III HER2(+) breast cancer treated with chemotherapy/T. Groups with and without basal protein expression were compared with respect to clinicopathologic parameters and survival. We treated 4 cell lines (2 basal-HER2 [HCC1569, HCC1954] and 2 nonbasal HER2 [BT474, SKBR3]) each with vehicle, T 20 μg/mL, paclitaxel 0.01 μM (P), and T with P (T + P). Cell viability was assessed and HER2 pathway suppression was compared between groups using immunoblot analysis. Mammosphere formation was used to assess breast cancer stem cell properties.

**RESULTS:** EGFR expression was significantly associated with cancer-specific survival (CSS) (P = .05). CK5/6 expression strongly correlated with overall and disease-free survival, and CSS (P = .03, P = .04, and P = .03, respectively). Statistical significance was maintained for EGFR and CK5/6 after adjustment for covariates. CK14 was not associated with survival. All cell lines expressed similar levels of HER2. T and P alone inhibited proliferation of nonbasal cell lines; T + P had an additive cytotoxic effect. Basal cells were resistant to T, P inhibited proliferation, but T + P had no additive cytotoxic effect on cell growth in basal cells. Immunoblot analysis showed a significant decrease in phosphorylated Akt levels after treatment with T or T + P in nonbasal cells but not in basal cells. Akt blockade suppressed growth of basal and nonbasal HER2(+) cells. Furthermore, basal HER2 cell lines had increased mammosphere formation, which suggests increased stem cell properties compared with nonbasal HER2 cell lines.

**CONCLUSION:** CK5/6 and EGFR expression are predictive of worse prognosis in HER2(+) breast cancer patients treated with T. Basal HER2 breast cancer cell lines are resistant to trastuzamab, which is mediated through the Akt pathway; AKT inhibition abrogates this resistance. Basal HER2 cell lines also have increased stem cell properties, which might play a role in the resistance pathway.