---
reference_id: PMID:31831814
title: "Nectin-4 cis-interacts with ErbB2 and its trastuzumab-resistant splice variants, enhancing their activation and DNA synthesis."
authors:
- Kedashiro S
- Sugiura A
- Mizutani K
- Takai Y
journal: Scientific reports
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-55460-9
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:29:35+00:00'
---

# Nectin-4 cis-interacts with ErbB2 and its trastuzumab-resistant splice variants, enhancing their activation and DNA synthesis.
**Authors:** Kedashiro S, Sugiura A, Mizutani K, Takai Y
**Journal:** Scientific reports (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41598-019-55460-9](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-55460-9)

## Content

Nectin-4 cell adhesion molecule and ErbB2 tyrosine kinase receptor are upregulated in many cancers, including breast cancer, and promote cancer cell proliferation and metastasis. Using human breast cancer cell lines T47D and SUM190-PT, in which both nectin-4 and ErbB2 were upregulated, we showed here that nectin-4 cis-interacted with ErB2 and enhanced its dimerization and activation, followed by the activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase-AKT signalling pathway for DNA synthesis. The third immunoglobulin-like domain of nectin-4 cis-interacted with domain IV of ErbB2. This region differs from the trastuzumab-interacting region but is included in the trastuzumab-resistant splice variants of ErbB2, p95-ErbB2 and ErbB2ΔEx16. Nectin-4 also cis-interacted with these trastuzumab-resistant splice variants and enhanced the activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase-AKT signalling pathway for DNA synthesis. In addition, nectin-4 enhanced the activation of the p95-ErbB2-induced JAK-STAT3 signalling pathway, but not the ErbB2- or ErbB2ΔEx16-induced JAK-STAT3 signalling pathway. These results indicate that nectin-4 cis-interacts with ErbB2 and its trastuzumab-resistant splice variants and enhances the activation of these receptors and downstream signalling pathways in a novel mechanism.