---
reference_id: PMID:30205135
title: Kahweol inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis by suppressing fatty acid synthase in HER2-overexpressing cancer cells.
authors:
- Oh SH
- Hwang YP
- Choi JH
- Jin SW
- Lee GH
- Han EH
- Chung YH
- Chung YC
- Jeong HG
journal: "Food and chemical toxicology : an international journal published for the British Industrial Biological Research Association"
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2018.09.008
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:29:34+00:00'
---

# Kahweol inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis by suppressing fatty acid synthase in HER2-overexpressing cancer cells.
**Authors:** Oh SH, Hwang YP, Choi JH, Jin SW, Lee GH, Han EH, Chung YH, Chung YC, Jeong HG
**Journal:** Food and chemical toxicology : an international journal published for the British Industrial Biological Research Association (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.fct.2018.09.008](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fct.2018.09.008)

## Content

Kahweol is a coffee-specific diterpene found in the beans of Coffea arabica and has been reported to demonstrate various biological activities, including anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and apoptotic properties. In the present study, we examined the molecular mechanism of kahweol in human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER2)-overexpressing breast cancer cells. Kahweol preferentially inhibited cell proliferation and induced cell death through the induction of a caspase 3-dependent pathway in HER2-overexpression breast cancer cell lines. Kahweol treatment substantially reduced the levels of HER2 protein, mRNA, and transcriptional activity in SKBR3 cells. Kahweol exerts its potent anticancer efficacy by the upregulation of polyomavirus enhancer activator 3 (PEA3) and downregulation of activator protein 2 (AP-2) to inhibit aberrantly activated HER2 signaling. Fatty acid synthase (FASN) expression and sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c) activity were downregulated by kahweol. In addition, kahweol lowered the levels of phosphorylated Akt and its downstream targets mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and cyclin D1. Furthermore, we found that blocking Akt signaling through kahweol treatment significantly reduced FASN expression and subsequently suppressed cell proliferation in HER2-overexpressing cancer cells. Overall, this study suggests that kahweol could be a useful adjuvant therapeutic agent in the treatment of HER2-overexpressing breast cancer.