---
reference_id: PMID:10728760
title: "Reversal of the antiinflammatory effects of methotrexate by the nonselective adenosine receptor antagonists theophylline and caffeine: evidence that the antiinflammatory effects of methotrexate are mediated via multiple adenosine receptors in rat adjuvant arthritis."
authors:
- Montesinos MC
- Yap JS
- Desai A
- Posadas I
- McCrary CT
- Cronstein BN
journal: Arthritis and rheumatism
year: '2000'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:45:57+00:00'
---

# Reversal of the antiinflammatory effects of methotrexate by the nonselective adenosine receptor antagonists theophylline and caffeine: evidence that the antiinflammatory effects of methotrexate are mediated via multiple adenosine receptors in rat adjuvant arthritis.
**Authors:** Montesinos MC, Yap JS, Desai A, Posadas I, McCrary CT, Cronstein BN
**Journal:** Arthritis and rheumatism (2000)

## Content

**OBJECTIVE:** Weekly low-dose methotrexate (MTX) remains the mainstay of second-line therapy for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We have previously reported that adenosine, acting at specific receptors on inflammatory cells, mediates the antiinflammatory effects of MTX in both in vitro and in vivo models of acute inflammation, but the mechanism by which MTX suppresses the chronic inflammation of arthritis remains controversial. The present study was undertaken to further investigate the means by which adenosine mediates the antiinflammatory effects of MTX.

**METHODS:** The effects of 2 nonselective adenosine receptor antagonists, theophylline and caffeine, were examined, using the rat adjuvant arthritis model of RA. These agents were given alone and in conjunction with MTX, and arthritis severity was assessed clinically, radiologically, and histologically. Since rodent adenosine A3 receptors are not blocked by theophylline, selective A1, A2A, and A2B receptor antagonists were tested as well.

**RESULTS:** Control animals developed severe arthritis, which was markedly attenuated by weekly treatment with MTX (0.75 mg/kg/week). Neither theophylline alone nor caffeine alone (each at 10 mg/kg/day) significantly affected the severity of the arthritis, but both agents markedly reversed the effect of MTX as measured by a severity index, hindpaw swelling, and hindpaw ankylosis. Radiographic and histologic analyses confirmed these observations. Neither A1, A2A, nor A2B receptor antagonists affected the capacity of MTX to ameliorate inflammation in adjuvant arthritis.

**CONCLUSION:** These results provide strong evidence that adenosine mediates the antiinflammatory effects of MTX in this model of RA. Moreover, the findings suggest that abstinence from caffeine, a ubiquitous food additive and medication, may enhance the therapeutic effects of MTX in RA.