---
reference_id: PMID:28256585
title: LRP1 influences trafficking of N-type calcium channels via interaction with the auxiliary α2δ-1 subunit.
authors:
- Kadurin I
- Rothwell SW
- Lana B
- Nieto-Rostro M
- Dolphin AC
journal: Scientific reports
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1038/srep43802
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:11:57+00:00'
---

# LRP1 influences trafficking of N-type calcium channels via interaction with the auxiliary α2δ-1 subunit.
**Authors:** Kadurin I, Rothwell SW, Lana B, Nieto-Rostro M, Dolphin AC
**Journal:** Scientific reports (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1038/srep43802](https://doi.org/10.1038/srep43802)

## Content

Voltage-gated Ca2+ (CaV) channels consist of a pore-forming α1 subunit, which determines the main functional and pharmacological attributes of the channel. The CaV1 and CaV2 channels are associated with auxiliary β- and α2δ-subunits. The molecular mechanisms involved in α2δ subunit trafficking, and the effect of α2δ subunits on trafficking calcium channel complexes remain poorly understood. Here we show that α2δ-1 is a ligand for the Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL) Receptor-related Protein-1 (LRP1), a multifunctional receptor which mediates trafficking of cargoes. This interaction with LRP1 is direct, and is modulated by the LRP chaperone, Receptor-Associated Protein (RAP). LRP1 regulates α2δ binding to gabapentin, and influences calcium channel trafficking and function. Whereas LRP1 alone reduces α2δ-1 trafficking to the cell-surface, the LRP1/RAP combination enhances mature glycosylation, proteolytic processing and cell-surface expression of α2δ-1, and also increase plasma-membrane expression and function of CaV2.2 when co-expressed with α2δ-1. Furthermore RAP alone produced a small increase in cell-surface expression of CaV2.2, α2δ-1 and the associated calcium currents. It is likely to be interacting with an endogenous member of the LDL receptor family to have these effects. Our findings now provide a key insight and new tools to investigate the trafficking of calcium channel α2δ subunits.