---
reference_id: PMID:35963482
title: Targeting the complexity of ERBB2 biology in gastroesophageal carcinoma.
authors:
- Augustin JE
- Soussan P
- Bass AJ
journal: "Annals of oncology : official journal of the European Society for Medical Oncology"
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1016/j.annonc.2022.08.001
corrections_in:
- 36754726
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:34:36+00:00'
---

# Targeting the complexity of ERBB2 biology in gastroesophageal carcinoma.
**Authors:** Augustin JE, Soussan P, Bass AJ
**Journal:** Annals of oncology : official journal of the European Society for Medical Oncology (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.annonc.2022.08.001](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2022.08.001)

## Content

ERBB2 is the most prominent therapeutic target in gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma (GEA). For two decades, trastuzumab was the only treatment available for GEA overexpressing ERBB2. Several drugs showing evidence of efficacy over or in complement to trastuzumab in breast cancer failed to show clinical benefit in GEA. This resistance to anti-ERBB2 therapy is peculiarly recurrent in GEA and is mostly due to tumor heterogeneity with the existence of low expressing ERBB2 tumor clones and loss of ERBB2 over time. The development of new ERBB2 testing strategies and the use of antibody-drug conjugates having a bystander effect are providing new tools to fight heterogeneity in ERBB2-positive GEA. Co-amplifications of tyrosine kinase receptors, alterations in mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathways and in proteins controlling cell cycle are well known to contribute resistance to anti-ERBB2 therapy, and they can be targeted by dual therapy. Recently described, NF1 mutations are responsible for Ras phosphorylation and activation and can also be targeted by MEK/ERK inhibition along with anti-ERBB2 therapy. Multiple lines of evidence suggest that immune mechanisms involving antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity are preponderant over intracellular signaling in anti-ERBB2 therapy action. A better comprehension of these mechanisms could leverage immune action of anti-ERBB2 therapy and elucidate efficacy of combinations associating immunotherapy and anti-ERBB2 therapy, as suggested by the recent intermediate positive results of the KEYNOTE-811 trial.