---
reference_id: PMID:41449191
title: "Uricosuric, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties of Pandanus amaryllifolius Roxb. extract against potassium oxonate-induced hyperuricemia in rats."
authors:
- Suntornsaratoon P
- Bulanawichit W
- Siricoon S
- Saengsirisuwan V
- Panupinthu N
- Krishnamra N
- Charoenphandhu N
journal: Scientific reports
year: '2025'
doi: 10.1038/s41598-025-27933-7
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:08:54+00:00'
---

# Uricosuric, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties of Pandanus amaryllifolius Roxb. extract against potassium oxonate-induced hyperuricemia in rats.
**Authors:** Suntornsaratoon P, Bulanawichit W, Siricoon S, Saengsirisuwan V, Panupinthu N, Krishnamra N, Charoenphandhu N
**Journal:** Scientific reports (2025)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41598-025-27933-7](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-27933-7)

## Content

High serum uric acid (HUA) is linked to gout, fatty liver, and insulin resistance. Anti-hyperuricemic drugs were designed to lower uric acid production and/or inhibit urate reabsorption by renal and extra-renal tissues. While Pandanus amaryllifolius Roxb. ex Lindl. extract (PA) was reported to reduce uric acid production, the full effects of PA on urate metabolism were unclear. This study investigated PA impact on uric acid reabsorption and excretion in Wistar rats with potassium oxonate-induced HUA. Hyperuricemic rats showed elevated uric acid, reduced urinary excretion, decreased antioxidants, β-cell dysfunction, hyperglycemia, kidney damage, and hepatic fat. PA supplementation (0.5, 1, and 2 g/kg) for 14 days lowered serum xanthine oxidase activity and uric acid levels, comparable to benzbromarone and less potently than allopurinol. This reduction was achieved by suppressing urate reabsorption and enhancing renal and intestinal urate excretion. Furthermore, PA alleviated β-cell dysfunction and hyperglycemia by improving insulin secretion and signaling (IRS1 and Akt activation). It also reduced hepatic lipid synthesis, stimulated lipolysis, and decreased hepatic fat accumulation and pro-inflammatory cytokines. These findings demonstrate PA xanthine oxidase inhibitory, uricosuric, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent for hyperuricemia and related hyperglycemia.