---
reference_id: PMID:12649145
title: Comparative response of plasma VWF in dogs to up-regulation of VWF mRNA by interleukin-11 versus Weibel-Palade body release by desmopressin (DDAVP).
authors:
- Olsen EH
- McCain AS
- Merricks EP
- Fischer TH
- Dillon IM
- Raymer RA
- Bellinger DA
- Fahs SA
- Montgomery RR
- Keith JC
- Schaub RG
- Nichols TC
journal: Blood
year: '2003'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:13:13+00:00'
---

# Comparative response of plasma VWF in dogs to up-regulation of VWF mRNA by interleukin-11 versus Weibel-Palade body release by desmopressin (DDAVP).
**Authors:** Olsen EH, McCain AS, Merricks EP, Fischer TH, Dillon IM, Raymer RA, Bellinger DA, Fahs SA, Montgomery RR, Keith JC, Schaub RG, Nichols TC
**Journal:** Blood (2003)

## Content

Recombinant human interleukin-11 (rhIL-11), a glycoprotein 130 (gp130)-signaling cytokine approved for treatment of thrombocytopenia, also raises von Willebrand factor (VWF) and factor VIII (FVIII) by an unknown mechanism. Desmopressin (1-deamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin [DDAVP]) releases stored VWF and FVIII and is used for treatment of VWF and FVIII deficiencies. To compare the effect of these 2 agents, heterozygous von Willebrand disease (VWD) and normal dogs were treated with either rhIL-11 (50 microg/kg/d subcutaneously x 7 days) or DDAVP (5 microg/kg/d intravenously x 7 days). The rhIL-11 produced a gradual and sustained elevation of VWF and FVIII levels in both heterozygous VWD and normal dogs while DDAVP produced a rapid and unsustained increase. Importantly, rhIL-11 treatment produced a 2.5- to 11-fold increase in VWF mRNA in normal canine heart, aorta, and spleen but not in homozygous VWD dogs, thus identifying a mechanism for elevation of plasma VWF in vivo. Moreover, dogs pretreated with rhIL-11 retain a DDAVP-releasable pool of VWF and FVIII, suggesting that rhIL-11 does not significantly alter trafficking of these proteins to or from storage pools. The half-life of infused VWF is unchanged by rhIL-11 in homozygous VWD dogs. These results show that rhIL-11 and DDAVP raise plasma VWF by different mechanisms. Treatment with rhIL-11 with or without DDAVP may provide an alternative to plasma-derived products for some VWD and hemophilia A patients if it is shown safe in clinical trials.