---
reference_id: PMID:10532684
title: "Up-regulation of low density lipoprotein receptor by a novel isobenzofranone derivative, MD-700."
authors:
- Murakami S
- Nitanai I
- Uchida S
- Kondo-Ohta Y
- Asami Y
- Kondo K
- Sato M
- Kawashima A
- Hara H
- Tomisawa K
- Mei HB
- Xiang CZ
journal: Atherosclerosis
year: '1999'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:37:28+00:00'
---

# Up-regulation of low density lipoprotein receptor by a novel isobenzofranone derivative, MD-700.
**Authors:** Murakami S, Nitanai I, Uchida S, Kondo-Ohta Y, Asami Y, Kondo K, Sato M, Kawashima A, Hara H, Tomisawa K, Mei HB, Xiang CZ
**Journal:** Atherosclerosis (1999)

## Content

Stimulatory effects of a novel isobenzofranone, MD-700, on low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor activity were investigated in vitro and in vivo. MD-700 at 0.03 microg/ml elevated the expression of LDL receptor in HepG2 cells within 4 h. Corresponding to this, uptake of fluorescent labeled-LDL (3,3'-dioctadecylindocarbocyanine-LDL) by the cells increased linearly in time- and dose-dependent manner by MD-700 for up to 12 h. In the experiment using HepG2 cells transiently transfected with promoter-luciferase gene constructs, MD-700 increased luciferase activity in a dose-dependent manner from 0.03 to 0.1 microg/ml. In contrast, luciferase activity was not stimulated by MD-700 in construct with a deleted sterol regulatory element (SRE)-1, suggesting importance of SRE-1 in stimulation of the LDL receptor gene promoter by MD-700. Binding experiments on liver membranes from MD-700-treated hamsters showed about a 60% increase in 125I-labeled LDL binding. A Scatchard plot revealed that MD-700 increased the maximal binding without affecting binding affinity. In contrast to findings with an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, pravastatin, MD-700 had no effect on the sterol synthesis in hamster liver homogenates. These results suggest that MD-700 stimulates the expression of LDL receptor, presumably in a manner independent of change in sterol metabolism, and thereby promotes LDL clearance. Hypocholesterolemic actions of MD-700 in hamsters were then examined. MD-700 lowered serum cholesterol levels in hamsters fed normal chow or a high-fat diet. Fractionation of serum lipoproteins demonstrated that MD-700 selectively decreased LDL and very low density lipoprotein cholesterol. Dose-dependent decrease in serum cholesterol was also seen in hypercholesterolemic rats. Thus, the hypocholesterolemic action of MD-700 may be attributed to up-regulation of the LDL receptor, based on stimulation of the transcription of the LDL receptor gene. Although pravastatin stimulates LDL uptake and lowers serum cholesterol in a manner similar to that seen with MD-700, the mechanism responsible for hypocholesterolemic action appears to differ.