---
reference_id: PMID:36095190
title: Mixed lineage kinase 3 and CD70 cooperation sensitize trastuzumab-resistant HER2+ breast cancer by ceramide-loaded nanoparticles.
authors:
- Kumar S
- Das S
- Sun J
- Huang Y
- Singh SK
- Srivastava P
- Sondarva G
- Nair RS
- Viswakarma N
- Ganesh BB
- Duan L
- Maki CG
- Hoskins K
- Danciu O
- Rana B
- Li S
- Rana A
journal: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1073/pnas.2205454119
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:29:35+00:00'
---

# Mixed lineage kinase 3 and CD70 cooperation sensitize trastuzumab-resistant HER2+ breast cancer by ceramide-loaded nanoparticles.
**Authors:** Kumar S, Das S, Sun J, Huang Y, Singh SK, Srivastava P, Sondarva G, Nair RS, Viswakarma N, Ganesh BB, Duan L, Maki CG, Hoskins K, Danciu O, Rana B, Li S, Rana A
**Journal:** Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1073/pnas.2205454119](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2205454119)

## Content

Trastuzumab is the first-line therapy for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive (HER2+) breast cancer, but often patients develop acquired resistance. Although other agents are in clinical use to treat trastuzumab-resistant (TR) breast cancer; still, the patients develop recurrent metastatic disease. One of the primary mechanisms of acquired resistance is the shedding/loss of the HER2 extracellular domain, where trastuzumab binds. We envisioned any new agent acting downstream of the HER2 should overcome trastuzumab resistance. The mixed lineage kinase 3 (MLK3) activation by trastuzumab is necessary for promoting cell death in HER2+ breast cancer. We designed nanoparticles loaded with MLK3 agonist ceramide (PPP-CNP) and tested their efficacy in sensitizing TR cell lines, patient-derived organoids, and patient-derived xenograft (PDX). The PPP-CNP activated MLK3, its downstream JNK kinase activity, and down-regulated AKT pathway signaling in TR cell lines and PDX. The activation of MLK3 and down-regulation of AKT signaling by PPP-CNP induced cell death and inhibited cellular proliferation in TR cells and PDX. The apoptosis in TR cells was dependent on increased CD70 protein expression and caspase-9 and caspase-3 activities by PPP-CNP. The PPP-CNP treatment alike increased the expression of CD70, CD27, cleaved caspase-9, and caspase-3 with a concurrent tumor burden reduction of TR PDX. Moreover, the expressions of CD70 and ceramide levels were lower in TR than sensitive HER2+ human breast tumors. Our in vitro and preclinical animal models suggest that activating the MLK3-CD70 axis by the PPP-CNP could sensitize/overcome trastuzumab resistance in HER2+ breast cancer.