---
reference_id: PMID:1848814
title: Mobility of the spin-labeled side chains of some novel antifolate inhibitors in their complexes with dihydrofolate reductase.
authors:
- Blakley RL
- Piper JR
- Maharaj G
- Appleman JR
- Delcamp TJ
- Freisheim JH
- Kulinski RF
- Montgomery JA
journal: European journal of biochemistry
year: '1991'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:46:37+00:00'
---

# Mobility of the spin-labeled side chains of some novel antifolate inhibitors in their complexes with dihydrofolate reductase.
**Authors:** Blakley RL, Piper JR, Maharaj G, Appleman JR, Delcamp TJ, Freisheim JH, Kulinski RF, Montgomery JA
**Journal:** European journal of biochemistry (1991)

## Content

Four spin-labeled inhibitors of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) have been synthesized, each of which has the 2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-1-piperidinyloxy (TEMPO) reporting group at a different distance from the 2,4-diaminopyrimidine moiety by which the inhibitors are anchored and oriented in the active site. Inhibitors in which the TEMPO group is attached by a short side chain are weakly bound to DHFR from bacteria (Streptococcus faecium and Lactobacillus casei), to the bovine enzyme and to recombinant human DHFR. However, binding is sufficiently tight, especially in the ternary complexes with NADPH, for recording of the EPR spectra of the bound ligands. The spectra indicate that when these inhibitors are bound to the enzyme the TEMPO group is highly immobilized with correlation time, tau c, 4-20ns. Inhibitors that have the reporter group attached to the glutamate moiety of methotrexate bind to all four DHFRs more tightly than the inhibitors with shorter side chains by factors of up to 10(6). However, in most complexes formed by the inhibitors with longer side chains immobilization of the TEMPO group is slight (tau c 0.2-4 ns). These results are in general agreement with predictions from X-ray crystallographic results including thermal factors but there are some unanticipated differences between some results for bacterial and eukaryotic enzymes. Three of the splin-labeled inhibitors would provide good probes for distance measurements in and around the active site of mammalian DHFR.