---
reference_id: PMID:37861809
title: Soluble LDL-receptor is induced by TNF-α and inhibits hepatocytic clearance of LDL-cholesterol.
authors:
- Zegeye MM
- Nakka SS
- Andersson JSO
- Söderberg S
- Ljungberg LU
- Kumawat AK
- Sirsjö A
journal: "Journal of molecular medicine (Berlin, Germany)"
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1007/s00109-023-02379-4
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T18:59:01+00:00'
---

# Soluble LDL-receptor is induced by TNF-α and inhibits hepatocytic clearance of LDL-cholesterol.
**Authors:** Zegeye MM, Nakka SS, Andersson JSO, Söderberg S, Ljungberg LU, Kumawat AK, Sirsjö A
**Journal:** Journal of molecular medicine (Berlin, Germany) (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s00109-023-02379-4](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00109-023-02379-4)

## Content

Defective LDL-C clearance and hence its elevation in the circulation is an established risk factor for cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) such as myocardial infarction (MI). A soluble LDL-receptor (sLDL-R) has been detected in human plasma which correlates strongly with circulating LDL-C and classical conditions that promote chronic inflammation. However, the mechanistic interplay between sLDL-R, inflammation, and CVDs remains to be investigated. Here, we report that stimulation of HepG2 cells with TNF-α induces the release of sLDL-R into culture supernatants. In addition, TNF-α induces gene expression of peptidases ADAM-17 and MMP-14 in HepG2 cells, and inhibiting these peptidases using TMI 1 significantly reduces the TNF-α induced sLDL-R release. We found that a soluble form of recombinant LDL-R (100 nM) can strongly bind to LDL-C and form a stable complex (KD = E-12). Moreover, incubation of HepG2 cells with this recombinant LDL-R resulted in reduced LDL-C uptake in a dose-dependent manner. In a nested case-control study, we found that baseline sLDL-R in plasma is positively correlated with plasma total cholesterol level. Furthermore, a twofold increase in plasma sLDL-R was associated with a 55% increase in the risk of future MI [AOR = 1.55 (95% CI = 1.10-2.18)]. Nevertheless, mediation analyses revealed that a significant proportion of the association is mediated by elevation in plasma cholesterol level (indirect effect β = 0.21 (95% CI = 0.07-0.38). Collectively, our study shows that sLDL-R is induced by a pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF-α via membrane shedding. Furthermore, an increase in sLDL-R could inhibit hepatic clearance of LDL-C increasing its half-life in the circulation and contributing to the pathogenesis of MI. KEY MESSAGES: TNF-α causes shedding of hepatocytic LDL-R through induction of ADAM-17 and MMP-14. sLDL-R binds strongly to LDL-C and inhibits its uptake by hepatocytic cells. Plasma sLDL-R is positively correlated with TNF-α and cholesterol. Plasma sLDL-R is an independent predictor of myocardial infarction (MI). Plasma cholesterol mediates the association between sLDL-R and MI.