---
reference_id: PMID:27302464
title: Thyroid hormone activation by type 2 deiodinase mediates exercise-induced peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator-1α expression in skeletal muscle.
authors:
- Bocco BM
- Louzada RA
- Silvestre DH
- Santos MC
- Anne-Palmer E
- Rangel IF
- Abdalla S
- Ferreira AC
- Ribeiro MO
- Gereben B
- Carvalho DP
- Bianco AC
- Werneck-de-Castro JP
journal: The Journal of physiology
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1113/JP272440
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:06:24+00:00'
---

# Thyroid hormone activation by type 2 deiodinase mediates exercise-induced peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator-1α expression in skeletal muscle.
**Authors:** Bocco BM, Louzada RA, Silvestre DH, Santos MC, Anne-Palmer E, Rangel IF, Abdalla S, Ferreira AC, Ribeiro MO, Gereben B, Carvalho DP, Bianco AC, Werneck-de-Castro JP
**Journal:** The Journal of physiology (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1113/JP272440](https://doi.org/10.1113/JP272440)

## Content

**KEY POINTS:** In skeletal muscle, physical exercise and thyroid hormone mediate the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1a) expression that is crucial to skeletal muscle mitochondrial function. The expression of type 2 deiodinase (D2), which activates thyroid hormone in skeletal muscle is upregulated by acute treadmill exercise through a β-adrenergic receptor-dependent mechanism. Pharmacological block of D2 or disruption of the Dio2 gene in skeletal muscle fibres impaired acute exercise-induced PGC-1a expression. Dio2 disruption also impaired muscle PGC-1a expression and mitochondrial citrate synthase activity in chronically exercised mice.

**ABSTRACT:** Thyroid hormone promotes expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1a), which mediates mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative capacity in skeletal muscle (SKM). Skeletal myocytes express the type 2 deiodinase (D2), which generates 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3 ), the active thyroid hormone. To test whether D2-generated T3 plays a role in exercise-induced PGC-1a expression, male rats and mice with SKM-specific Dio2 inactivation (SKM-D2KO or MYF5-D2KO) were studied. An acute treadmill exercise session (20 min at 70-75% of maximal aerobic capacity) increased D2 expression/activity (1.5- to 2.7-fold) as well as PGC-1a mRNA levels (1.5- to 5-fold) in rat soleus muscle and white gastrocnemius muscle and in mouse soleus muscle, which was prevented by pretreatment with 1 mg (100 g body weight)(-1) propranolol or 6 mg (100 g body weight)(-1) iopanoic acid (5.9- vs. 2.8-fold; P < 0.05), which blocks D2 activity . In the SKM-D2KO mice, acute treadmill exercise failed to induce PGC-1a fully in soleus muscle (1.9- vs. 2.8-fold; P < 0.05), and in primary SKM-D2KO myocytes there was only a limited PGC-1a response to 1 μm forskolin (2.2- vs. 1.3-fold; P < 0.05). Chronic exercise training (6 weeks) increased soleus muscle PGC-1a mRNA levels (∼25%) and the mitochondrial enzyme citrate synthase (∼20%). In contrast, PGC-1a expression did not change and citrate synthase decreased by ∼30% in SKM-D2KO mice. The soleus muscle PGC-1a response to chronic exercise was also blunted in MYF5-D2KO mice. In conclusion, acute treadmill exercise increases SKM D2 expression through a β-adrenergic receptor-dependent mechanism. The accelerated conversion of T4 to T3 within myocytes mediates part of the PGC-1a induction by treadmill exercise and its downstream effects on mitochondrial function.