---
reference_id: PMID:18677558
title: Characterization of the weak estrogen receptor alpha agonistic activity of exemestane.
authors:
- Masri S
- Lui K
- Phung S
- Ye J
- Zhou D
- Wang X
- Chen S
journal: Breast cancer research and treatment
year: '2009'
doi: 10.1007/s10549-008-0151-x
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:17:13+00:00'
---

# Characterization of the weak estrogen receptor alpha agonistic activity of exemestane.
**Authors:** Masri S, Lui K, Phung S, Ye J, Zhou D, Wang X, Chen S
**Journal:** Breast cancer research and treatment (2009)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s10549-008-0151-x](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10549-008-0151-x)

## Content

Third generation aromatase inhibitors (AI) have shown good clinical efficacy in comparison to the anti-estrogen tamoxifen. The steroidal AI, exemestane (EXE) has previously been shown to act as an androgen, but this report demonstrates the estrogen-like activity of EXE. Based on genome-wide microarray analysis, high correlation was seen between EXE-Only (EXE O, hormone-free) and hormone-containing AI-resistant lines. In addition, the top regulated genes in the EXE O lines were mostly estrogen-responsive genes. This estrogen-like activity of EXE was further validated using estrogen receptor (ER) activity assays, where in comparison to 17beta-estradiol (E2), EXE was able to induce ER activity, though at a higher concentration. Also, this EXE-mediated ER activity was blocked by the ER antagonist ICI as well as the ERalpha-specific antagonist methyl-piperidino-pyrazole (MPP). Similarly, EXE was able to induce proliferation of breast cancer cell lines, MCF-7 and MCF-7aro, as well as activate transcription of known estrogen-responsive genes, i.e., PGR, pS2 and AREG. These results suggest that EXE does have weak estrogen-like activity.