---
reference_id: PMID:10834421
title: "Optimized basal-bolus therapy using a fixed mixture of 75% lispro and 25% NPL insulin in type 1 diabetes patients: no favorable effects on glycemic control, physiological responses to hypoglycemia, well-being, or treatment satisfaction."
authors:
- Janssen MM
- Snoek FJ
- Masurel N
- Hoogma RP
- Devillé WL
- Popp-Snijders C
- Heine RJ
journal: Diabetes care
year: '2000'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:41:30+00:00'
---

# Optimized basal-bolus therapy using a fixed mixture of 75% lispro and 25% NPL insulin in type 1 diabetes patients: no favorable effects on glycemic control, physiological responses to hypoglycemia, well-being, or treatment satisfaction.
**Authors:** Janssen MM, Snoek FJ, Masurel N, Hoogma RP, Devillé WL, Popp-Snijders C, Heine RJ
**Journal:** Diabetes care (2000)

## Content

**OBJECTIVE:** To investigate the effects of a multiple injection regimen with a mixture of 75% lispro and 25% intermediate-acting insulin (lispro high mixture [HM]) before meals on glycemic control, physiological responses to hypoglycemia, well-being, and treatment satisfaction.

**RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS:** We studied 35 type 1 diabetes patients. After an 8- to 10-week lead-in period, patients were randomized to HM or human regular insulin therapy for 12-14 weeks. During the lead-in and treatment periods, HbA1c levels and hypoglycemic frequencies were measured, and patients completed the Well-Being Questionnaire and the Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire. In 19 patients, responses to hypoglycemia were tested during stepped euglycemic-hypoglycemic clamps.

**RESULTS:** HM treatment improved postprandial glycemia but had no effect on HbA1c, frequency of hypoglycemia, well-being, or treatment satisfaction. During experimental hypoglycemia, HM therapy was associated with a slightly lower total adrenaline response and a higher autonomic symptom threshold (i.e., the autonomic symptom response occurred at a lower blood glucose level) than human regular insulin therapy. We speculate that this effect resulted from an accumulation of insulin during the night.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Multiple injection therapy with HM rather than human regular insulin before meals does not offer advantages regarding glycemic control, frequency of hypoglycemia, well-being, or treatment satisfaction. In addition, this regimen causes an attenuation of the adrenaline and autonomic symptom responses to hypoglycemia.