---
reference_id: PMID:28203096
title: Burden of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus pneumonia among hospitalized patients in Lebanon and Saudi Arabia.
authors:
- Althaqafi AO
- Matar MJ
- Moghnieh R
- Alothman AF
- Alenazi TH
- Farahat F
- Corman S
- Solem CT
- Raghubir N
- Macahilig C
- Haider S
- Stephens JM
journal: Infection and drug resistance
year: '2017'
doi: 10.2147/IDR.S97416
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:51:50+00:00'
---

# Burden of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus pneumonia among hospitalized patients in Lebanon and Saudi Arabia.
**Authors:** Althaqafi AO, Matar MJ, Moghnieh R, Alothman AF, Alenazi TH, Farahat F, Corman S, Solem CT, Raghubir N, Macahilig C, Haider S, Stephens JM
**Journal:** Infection and drug resistance (2017)
**DOI:** [10.2147/IDR.S97416](https://doi.org/10.2147/IDR.S97416)

## Content

**OBJECTIVES:** The objective of this study is to describe the real-world treatment patterns and burden of suspected or confirmed methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) pneumonia in Saudi Arabia and Lebanon.

**METHODS:** A retrospective chart review study evaluated 2011-2012 data from hospitals in Saudi Arabia and Lebanon. Patients were included if they had been discharged with a diagnosis of MRSA pneumonia, which was culture proven or suspected based on clinical criteria. Hospital data were abstracted for a random sample of patients to capture demographics (eg, age and comorbidities), treatment patterns (eg, timing and use of antimicrobials), hospital resource utilization (eg, length of stay), and clinical outcomes (eg, clinical status at discharge and mortality). Descriptive results were reported using frequencies or proportions for categorical variables and mean and standard deviation for continuous variables.

**RESULTS:** Chart-level data were collected for 93 patients with MRSA pneumonia, 50 in Saudi Arabia and 43 in Lebanon. The average age of the patients was 56 years, and 60% were male. The most common comorbidities were diabetes (39%), congestive heart failure (30%), coronary artery disease (29%), and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (28%). Patients most frequently had positive cultures from pulmonary (87%) and blood (27%) samples. All isolates were sensitive to vancomycin, teicoplanin, and linezolid, and only one-third of the isolates tested were sensitive to ciprofloxacin. Beta-lactams (inactive therapy for MRSA) were prescribed 21% of the time across all lines of therapy, with 42% of patients receiving first-line beta-lactams. Fifteen percent of patients did not receive any antibiotics that were considered to be MRSA active. The mean hospital length of stay was 32 days, and in-hospital mortality was 30%.

**CONCLUSION:** The treatment for MRSA pneumonia in Saudi Arabia and Lebanon may be suboptimal with inactive therapy prescribed a substantial proportion of the time. The information gathered from this Middle East sample provides important perspectives on the current treatment patterns.