---
reference_id: PMID:25849133
title: Metformin activates a duodenal Ampk-dependent pathway to lower hepatic glucose production in rats.
authors:
- Duca FA
- Côté CD
- Rasmussen BA
- Zadeh-Tahmasebi M
- Rutter GA
- Filippi BM
- Lam TK
journal: Nature medicine
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1038/nm.3787
corrections_in:
- 26845410
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:00:35+00:00'
---

# Metformin activates a duodenal Ampk-dependent pathway to lower hepatic glucose production in rats.
**Authors:** Duca FA, Côté CD, Rasmussen BA, Zadeh-Tahmasebi M, Rutter GA, Filippi BM, Lam TK
**Journal:** Nature medicine (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1038/nm.3787](https://doi.org/10.1038/nm.3787)

## Content

Metformin is a first-line therapeutic option for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, even though its underlying mechanisms of action are relatively unclear. Metformin lowers blood glucose levels by inhibiting hepatic glucose production (HGP), an effect originally postulated to be due to a hepatic AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)-dependent mechanism. However, studies have questioned the contribution of hepatic AMPK to the effects of metformin on lowering hyperglycemia, and a gut-brain-liver axis that mediates intestinal nutrient- and hormone-induced lowering of HGP has been identified. Thus, it is possible that metformin affects HGP through this inter-organ crosstalk. Here we show that intraduodenal infusion of metformin for 50 min activated duodenal mucosal Ampk and lowered HGP in a rat 3 d high fat diet (HFD)-induced model of insulin resistance. Inhibition of duodenal Ampk negated the HGP-lowering effect of intraduodenal metformin, and both duodenal glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (Glp-1r)-protein kinase A (Pka) signaling and a neuronal-mediated gut-brain-liver pathway were required for metformin to lower HGP. Preabsorptive metformin also lowered HGP in rat models of 28 d HFD-induced obesity and insulin resistance and nicotinamide (NA)-streptozotocin (STZ)-HFD-induced type 2 diabetes. In an unclamped setting, inhibition of duodenal Ampk reduced the glucose-lowering effects of a bolus metformin treatment in rat models of diabetes. These findings show that, in rat models of both obesity and diabetes, metformin activates a previously unappreciated duodenal Ampk-dependent pathway to lower HGP and plasma glucose levels.