---
reference_id: PMID:17302610
title: Nature of cell kinetics in psoriatic epidermis.
authors:
- Doger FK
- Dikicioglu E
- Ergin F
- Unal E
- Sendur N
- Uslu M
journal: Journal of cutaneous pathology
year: '2007'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:58:04+00:00'
---

# Nature of cell kinetics in psoriatic epidermis.
**Authors:** Doger FK, Dikicioglu E, Ergin F, Unal E, Sendur N, Uslu M
**Journal:** Journal of cutaneous pathology (2007)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Psoriasis vulgaris is a common chronic inflammatory dermatosis. Disorders in keratinocyte proliferation, differentiation, inflammation and immune dysregulation are the major factors implicated in the pathogenesis of psoriasis vulgaris.

**METHODS:** The study was performed in skin specimens of 25 patients with psoriasis vulgaris and a control group of 10 individuals without a skin disease. Biopsy specimens from lesional and normal skin were analyzed by immunohistochemical method for expressions of Ki-67, Bcl-2, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling (TUNEL), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB). In addition, densities of mast cell infiltration were also investigated.

**RESULTS:** Ki-67 and TUNEL indexes and TNF-alpha and NF-kappaB expressions were significantly higher in psoriatic epidermis than in normal epidermis (p < 0.05). There was no significant difference at Bcl-2 reactivity between the normal and the psoriatic epidermis (p > 0.05); however, Bcl-2 staining intensity of lymphocytes was higher in psoriatic lesions than in normal dermis (p < 0.05). Additionally, the number of mast cells was significantly higher in psoriatic dermis than in normal skin (p < 0.05).

**CONCLUSIONS:** There were several complex factors involved in the pathogenesis of psoriasis. We conclude that cellular damage and apoptosis temporarily coincide with epidermal proliferation during the course of psoriatic hyperplasia.