---
reference_id: PMID:26262615
title: Functional Selectivity and Antidepressant Activity of Serotonin 1A Receptor Ligands.
authors:
- Chilmonczyk Z
- Bojarski AJ
- Pilc A
- Sylte I
journal: International journal of molecular sciences
year: '2015'
doi: 10.3390/ijms160818474
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:05:49+00:00'
---

# Functional Selectivity and Antidepressant Activity of Serotonin 1A Receptor Ligands.
**Authors:** Chilmonczyk Z, Bojarski AJ, Pilc A, Sylte I
**Journal:** International journal of molecular sciences (2015)
**DOI:** [10.3390/ijms160818474](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms160818474)

## Content

Serotonin (5-HT) is a monoamine neurotransmitter that plays an important role in physiological functions. 5-HT has been implicated in sleep, feeding, sexual behavior, temperature regulation, pain, and cognition as well as in pathological states including disorders connected to mood, anxiety, psychosis and pain. 5-HT1A receptors have for a long time been considered as an interesting target for the action of antidepressant drugs. It was postulated that postsynaptic 5-HT1A agonists could form a new class of antidepressant drugs, and mixed 5-HT1A receptor ligands/serotonin transporter (SERT) inhibitors seem to possess an interesting pharmacological profile. It should, however, be noted that 5-HT1A receptors can activate several different biochemical pathways and signal through both G protein-dependent and G protein-independent pathways. The variables that affect the multiplicity of 5-HT1A receptor signaling pathways would thus result from the summation of effects specific to the host cell milieu. Moreover, receptor trafficking appears different at pre- and postsynaptic sites. It should also be noted that the 5-HT1A receptor cooperates with other signal transduction systems (like the 5-HT1B or 5-HT2A/2B/2C receptors, the GABAergic and the glutaminergic systems), which also contribute to its antidepressant and/or anxiolytic activity. Thus identifying brain specific molecular targets for 5-HT1A receptor ligands may result in a better targeting, raising a hope for more effective medicines for various pathologies.