---
reference_id: PMID:34403440
title: Thyroid hormone deficiency during zebrafish development impairs central nervous system myelination.
authors:
- Farías-Serratos BM
- Lazcano I
- Villalobos P
- Darras VM
- Orozco A
journal: PloS one
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0256207
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:06:26+00:00'
---

# Thyroid hormone deficiency during zebrafish development impairs central nervous system myelination.
**Authors:** Farías-Serratos BM, Lazcano I, Villalobos P, Darras VM, Orozco A
**Journal:** PloS one (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1371/journal.pone.0256207](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0256207)

## Content

Thyroid hormones are messengers that bind to specific nuclear receptors and regulate a wide range of physiological processes in the early stages of vertebrate embryonic development, including neurodevelopment and myelogenesis. We here tested the effects of reduced T3 availability upon the myelination process by treating zebrafish embryos with low concentrations of iopanoic acid (IOP) to block T4 to T3 conversion. Black Gold II staining showed that T3 deficiency reduced the myelin density in the forebrain, midbrain, hindbrain and the spinal cord at 3 and 7 dpf. These observations were confirmed in 3 dpf mbp:egfp transgenic zebrafish, showing that the administration of IOP reduced the fluorescent signal in the brain. T3 rescue treatment restored brain myelination and reversed the changes in myelin-related gene expression induced by IOP exposure. NG2 immunostaining revealed that T3 deficiency reduced the amount of oligodendrocyte precursor cells in 3 dpf IOP-treated larvae. Altogether, the present results show that inhibition of T4 to T3 conversion results in hypomyelination, suggesting that THs are part of the key signaling molecules that control the timing of oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelin synthesis from very early stages of brain development.