---
reference_id: PMID:39070798
title: Lisinopril increases lung ACE2 levels and SARS-CoV-2 viral load and decreases inflammation but not disease severity in experimental COVID-19.
authors:
- Silva-Santos Y
- Pagni RL
- Gamon THM
- de Azevedo MSP
- Bielavsky M
- Darido MLG
- de Oliveira DBL
- de Souza EE
- Wrenger C
- Durigon EL
- Luvizotto MCR
- Ackerman HC
- Marinho CRF
- Epiphanio S
- Carvalho LJM
journal: Frontiers in pharmacology
year: '2024'
doi: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1414406
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:07:31+00:00'
---

# Lisinopril increases lung ACE2 levels and SARS-CoV-2 viral load and decreases inflammation but not disease severity in experimental COVID-19.
**Authors:** Silva-Santos Y, Pagni RL, Gamon THM, de Azevedo MSP, Bielavsky M, Darido MLG, de Oliveira DBL, de Souza EE, Wrenger C, Durigon EL, Luvizotto MCR, Ackerman HC, Marinho CRF, Epiphanio S, Carvalho LJM
**Journal:** Frontiers in pharmacology (2024)
**DOI:** [10.3389/fphar.2024.1414406](https://doi.org/10.3389/fphar.2024.1414406)

## Content

COVID-19 causes more severe and frequently fatal disease in patients with pre-existing comorbidities such as hypertension and heart disease. SARS-CoV-2 virus enters host cells through the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), which is fundamental in maintaining arterial pressure through the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). Hypertensive patients commonly use medications such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi), which can modulate the expression of ACE2 and, therefore, potentially impact the susceptibility and severity of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Here we assessed whether treatment of ACE2-humanized (K18-hACE2) mice with the ACEi Lisinopril affects lung ACE2 levels and the outcome of experimental COVID-19. K18-hACE2 mice were treated for 21 days with Lisinopril 10 mg/kg and were then infected with 105 PFU of SARS-CoV-2 (Wuhan strain). Body weight, clinical score, respiratory function, survival, lung ACE2 levels, viral load, lung histology, and cytokine (IL-6, IL-33, and TNF-α) levels were assessed. Mice treated with Lisinopril for 21 days showed increased levels of ACE2 in the lungs. Infection with SARS-CoV-2 led to massive decrease in lung ACE2 levels at 3 days post-infection (dpi) in treated and untreated animals, but Lisinopril-treated mice showed a fast recovery (5dpi) of ACE2 levels. Higher ACE2 levels in Lisinopril-treated mice led to remarkably higher lung viral loads at 3 and 6/7dpi. Lisinopril-treated mice showed decreased levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNF-α in the serum and lungs at 6/7dpi. Marginal improvements in body weight, clinical score and survival were observed in Lisinopril-treated mice. No differences between treated and untreated infected mice were observed in respiratory function and lung histology. Lisinopril treatment showed both deleterious (higher viral loads) and beneficial (anti-inflammatory and probably anti-constrictory and anti-coagulant) effects in experimental COVID-19. These effects seem to compensate each other, resulting in marginal beneficial effects in terms of outcome for Lisinopril-treated animals.