---
reference_id: PMID:32997196
title: Combination efficacy of pertuzumab and trastuzumab for trastuzumab emtansine-resistant cells exhibiting attenuated lysosomal trafficking or efflux pumps upregulation.
authors:
- Yamashita-Kashima Y
- Shu S
- Osada M
- Fujimura T
- Yoshiura S
- Harada N
- Yoshimura Y
journal: Cancer chemotherapy and pharmacology
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1007/s00280-020-04138-5
corrections_in:
- 33337527
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:45:03+00:00'
---

# Combination efficacy of pertuzumab and trastuzumab for trastuzumab emtansine-resistant cells exhibiting attenuated lysosomal trafficking or efflux pumps upregulation.
**Authors:** Yamashita-Kashima Y, Shu S, Osada M, Fujimura T, Yoshiura S, Harada N, Yoshimura Y
**Journal:** Cancer chemotherapy and pharmacology (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s00280-020-04138-5](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00280-020-04138-5)

## Content

**PURPOSE:** Trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) is the standard treatment in the current second-line therapy of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive metastatic breast cancer. However, a useful therapy after T-DM1 resistance has not been established. In this study, we established two different HER2-positive T-DM1-resistant cancer cells and evaluated the antitumor effect of trastuzumab in combination with pertuzumab (TRAS + PER).

**METHODS:** Single-cell-cloned OE19 and BT-474 cells were cultured with increasing concentrations of T-DM1 to generate T-DM1-resistant OE19bTDR and BT-474bTDR cells, respectively. HER2 expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry. Multidrug resistance proteins (MDR1 and MRP1) were evaluated by real-time polymerase chain reaction and western blotting. Intracellular trafficking of T-DM1 was examined by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence staining. Efficacy of TRAS + PER was evaluated by cell proliferation assay, HER3 and AKT phosphorylation, caspase 3/7 activity, and antitumor activity.

**RESULTS:** HER2 expression of both resistant cells was equivalent to that of the parent cells. Overexpression of MDR1 and MRP1 was observed and affected the T-DM1 sensitivity in the OE19bTDR cells. Abnormal localization of T-DM1 into the lysosomes was observed in the BT-474bTDR cells. In BT-474bTDR cells, TRAS + PER inhibited the phosphorylation of AKT involved in HER2-HER3 signaling, and apoptosis induction and cell proliferation inhibition were significantly higher with TRAS + PER than with the individual drugs. TRAS + PER significantly suppressed tumor growth in the OE19bTDR xenograft model compared with each single agent.

**CONCLUSIONS:** The results suggest that the TRAS + PER combination may be effective in T-DM1-resistant cancer cells where HER2 overexpression is maintained.