---
reference_id: PMID:35902033
title: Guideline-Directed Medical Therapy in Newly Diagnosed Heart Failure With Reduced Ejection Fraction in the Community.
authors:
- Dunlay SM
- Killian JM
- Roger VL
- Schulte PJ
- Blecker SB
- Savitz ST
- Redfield MM
journal: Journal of cardiac failure
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1016/j.cardfail.2022.07.047
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:11:10+00:00'
---

# Guideline-Directed Medical Therapy in Newly Diagnosed Heart Failure With Reduced Ejection Fraction in the Community.
**Authors:** Dunlay SM, Killian JM, Roger VL, Schulte PJ, Blecker SB, Savitz ST, Redfield MM
**Journal:** Journal of cardiac failure (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.cardfail.2022.07.047](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cardfail.2022.07.047)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Guideline-directed medical therapy (GDMT) dramatically improves outcomes in heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). Our goal was to examine GDMT use in community patients with newly diagnosed HFrEF.

**METHODS AND RESULTS:** We performed a population-based, retrospective cohort study of all Olmsted County, Minnesota, residents with newly diagnosed HFrEF (EF ≤ 40%) 2007-2017. We excluded patients with contraindications to medication initiation. We examined the use of beta-blockers, HF beta-blockers (metoprolol succinate, carvedilol, bisoprolol), angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEis), angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), angiotensin receptor neprilysin inhibitors (ARNIS), and mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) in the first year after HFrEF diagnosis. We used Cox models to evaluate the association of being seen in an HF clinic with the initiation of GDMT. From 2007 to 2017, 1160 patients were diagnosed with HFrEF (mean age 69.7 years, 65.6% men). Most eligible patients received beta-blockers (92.6%) and ACEis/ARBs/ARNIs (87.0%) in the first year. However, only 63.8% of patients were treated with an HF beta-blocker, and few received MRAs (17.6%). In models accounting for the role of an HF clinic in initiation of these medications, being seen in an HF clinic was independently associated with initiation of new GDMT across all medication classes, with a hazard ratio (95% CI) of 1.54 (1.15-2.06) for any beta-blocker, 2.49 (1.95-3.20) for HF beta-blockers, 1.97 (1.46-2.65) for ACEis/ARBs/ARNIs, and 2.14 (1.49-3.08) for MRAs.

**CONCLUSIONS:** In this population-based study, most patients with newly diagnosed HFrEF received beta-blockers and ACEis/ARBs/ARNIs. GDMT use was higher in patients seen in an HF clinic, suggesting the potential benefit of referral to an HF clinic for patients with newly diagnosed HFrEF.