---
reference_id: PMID:36367461
title: Multi-omics Investigation into the Mechanism of Action of an Anti-tubercular Fatty Acid Analogue.
authors:
- Sakallioglu IT
- Maroli AS
- De Lima Leite A
- Marshall DD
- Evans BW
- Zinniel DK
- Dussault PH
- Barletta RG
- Powers R
journal: Journal of the American Chemical Society
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1021/jacs.2c08238
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:46:57+00:00'
---

# Multi-omics Investigation into the Mechanism of Action of an Anti-tubercular Fatty Acid Analogue.
**Authors:** Sakallioglu IT, Maroli AS, De Lima Leite A, Marshall DD, Evans BW, Zinniel DK, Dussault PH, Barletta RG, Powers R
**Journal:** Journal of the American Chemical Society (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1021/jacs.2c08238](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c08238)

## Content

The mechanism of action (MoA) of a clickable fatty acid analogue 8-(2-cyclobuten-1-yl)octanoic acid (DA-CB) has been investigated for the first time. Proteomics, metabolomics, and lipidomics were combined with a network analysis to investigate the MoA of DA-CB against Mycobacterium smegmatis (Msm). The metabolomics results showed that DA-CB has a general MoA related to that of ethionamide (ETH), a mycolic acid inhibitor that targets enoyl-ACP reductase (InhA), but DA-CB likely inhibits a step downstream from InhA. Our combined multi-omics approach showed that DA-CB appears to disrupt the pathway leading to the biosynthesis of mycolic acids, an essential mycobacterial fatty acid for both Msm and Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). DA-CB decreased keto-meromycolic acid biosynthesis. This intermediate is essential in the formation of mature mycolic acid, which is a key component of the mycobacterial cell wall in a process that is catalyzed by the essential polyketide synthase Pks13 and the associated ligase FadD32. The multi-omics analysis revealed further collateral alterations in bacterial metabolism, including the overproduction of shorter carbon chain hydroxy fatty acids and branched chain fatty acids, alterations in pyrimidine metabolism, and a predominate downregulation of proteins involved in fatty acid biosynthesis. Overall, the results with DA-CB suggest the exploration of this and related compounds as a new class of tuberculosis (TB) therapeutics. Furthermore, the clickable nature of DA-CB may be leveraged to trace the cellular fate of the modified fatty acid or any derived metabolite or biosynthetic intermediate.