---
reference_id: PMID:30641713
title: Anthropometric outcomes in type 2 diabetic patients with new dapagliflozin treatment; actual clinical experience data of six months retrospective glycemic control from single center.
authors:
- Calapkulu M
- Cander S
- Gul OO
- Ersoy C
journal: "Diabetes & metabolic syndrome"
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1016/j.dsx.2018.09.005
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:11:26+00:00'
---

# Anthropometric outcomes in type 2 diabetic patients with new dapagliflozin treatment; actual clinical experience data of six months retrospective glycemic control from single center.
**Authors:** Calapkulu M, Cander S, Gul OO, Ersoy C
**Journal:** Diabetes & metabolic syndrome (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.dsx.2018.09.005](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsx.2018.09.005)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** Dapagliflozin is an antidiabetic drug that has been used as a member of the new antidiabetic drug group that acts by inhibiting SGLT-2 and increasing urinary glucose excretion. With numerous controlled experimental studies of dapagliflozin, evaluation of real-life data after entry into clinical practice is an important condition. In our study, the effects of dapagliflozin on glycemic control and anthropometric measurements were investigated retrospectively.

**METHODS:** A-total of thirty-one type 2 diabetics were enrolled in the study. Data of before dapagliflozin and three and six months of treatment were recorded.

**RESULTS:** Dapagliflozin reduced HbA1c levels by 0,9% at 3 months and 0,79% at 6 months. Fasting plasma glucose decreased 41,1 mg/dl in the 3rd and 42 mg/dl in the 6th, postprandiyal glucose decreased 86,3 mg/dl in the 3rd and 74,2 mg/dl in the 6th. In the 3rd and 6th, body weights decreased by 3,3 kg and 4,2 kg, BMI decreased by 1,3 kg/m2 and 1,6 kg/m2 respectively. Similarly, it was observed that the waist circumference decreased by 1,3 cm at the end of 6th.

**CONCLUSION:** Our data show that SGLT-2 inhibitors provide glycemic control with reduce HbA1c levels by 0.8-0.9%, and reduce fasting and postprandial plasma glucose levels without increasing the risk of hypoglycemia and causing weight lose around 5% at the six mounths. SGLT-2 inhibitors were found to be more effective in reduce postprandiyal plasma glucose in patients who did not use insulin and fasting plasma glucose in patients with diabetes mellitus less than 10 years.