---
reference_id: PMID:33254382
title: Management of Ischemic Stroke Following Left Ventricular Assist Device.
authors:
- Rettenmaier LA
- Garg A
- Limaye K
- Leira EC
- Adams HP
- Shaban A
journal: "Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association"
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2020.105384
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:41:50+00:00'
---

# Management of Ischemic Stroke Following Left Ventricular Assist Device.
**Authors:** Rettenmaier LA, Garg A, Limaye K, Leira EC, Adams HP, Shaban A
**Journal:** Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2020.105384](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2020.105384)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Acute ischemic stroke is a common complication and an important source of morbidity and mortality in patients with left ventricular assist devices. There are no standardized protocols to guide management of ischemic stroke among patients with left ventricular assist device. We evaluated our experience treating patients who had an acute ischemic stroke following left ventricular assist device placement.

**METHODS:** We retrospectively reviewed all patients who underwent left ventricular assist device placement from 2010-2019 and identified patients who had acute ischemic stroke following left ventricular assist device placement.

**RESULTS:** Of 216 patients having left ventricular assist device placement (mean±SD age 52.9±16.2 years, women 26.9%), 19 (8.8%) had acute ischemic stroke (mean±SD age 55.8±12.0 years, women 36.8%). Median (interquartile range) time to ischemic stroke following left ventricular assist device placement was 96 (29-461) days. At the time of the ischemic stroke, 16/19 (84.2%) patients were taking both antiplatelet and anticoagulation therapy, 1/19 (5.3%) patient was receiving only anticoagulants, 1/19 (5.3%) patient was taking aspirin and dipyridamole, and 1/19 (5.3%) patient was not taking antithrombic agents. INR was subtherapeutic (INR<2.0) in 7/17 (41.2%) patients. No patient was eligible to receive thrombolytic therapy, while 5/19 (26.3%) underwent mechanical thrombectomy. Anticoagulation was continued in the acute stroke phase in 11/19 (57.9%) patients and temporarily held in 8/19 (42.1%) patients. Hemorrhagic transformation of the ischemic stroke occurred in 6/19 (31.6%) patients. Anticoagulation therapy was continued following ischemic stroke in 4/6 (66.7%) patients with hemorrhagic transformation.

**CONCLUSIONS:** While thrombolytic therapy is frequently contraindicated in the management of acute ischemic stroke following left ventricular assist device, mechanical thrombectomy remains a valid option in eligible patients. Anticoagulation is often continued through the acute phase of ischemic stroke secondary to concerns for LVAD thrombosis. The risks and benefits of continuing anticoagulation must be weighed carefully, especially in patients with large infarct volume, as hemorrhagic transformation remains a common complication.