---
reference_id: PMID:28629525
title: Erythropoietin Regulation by Angiotensin II.
authors:
- Kim YC
- Mungunsukh O
- Day RM
journal: Vitamins and hormones
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1016/bs.vh.2017.02.001
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:07:11+00:00'
---

# Erythropoietin Regulation by Angiotensin II.
**Authors:** Kim YC, Mungunsukh O, Day RM
**Journal:** Vitamins and hormones (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1016/bs.vh.2017.02.001](https://doi.org/10.1016/bs.vh.2017.02.001)

## Content

The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is a key regulator of blood pressure and blood volume homeostasis. The RAS is primarily comprised of the precursor protein angiotensinogen and the two proteases, renin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE). Angiotensin I (Ang I) is derived from angiotensinogen by renin, but appears to have no biological activity. In contrast, angiotensin II (Ang II) that has a variety of biological functions in the cells is converted from Ang I through removal of two-C-terminal residues by ACE. The physiological effects of Ang II are due to Ang II signaling through specific receptor binding, resulting in muscle contraction leading to increased blood pressure and volume. To modulate RAS, three classes of drugs have been developed: (1) renin inhibitors to prevent angiotensinogen conversion to Ang I, (2) ACE inhibitors, to prevent Ang I processing to Ang II and (3) angiotensin receptor blockers, to inhibit Ang II signaling through its receptor. Studies using the RAS inhibitors and Ang II demonstrated that RAS signaling mediates actions of Ang II in the regulation of proliferation and differentiation of specific hematopoietic cell types, especially in the red blood cell lineage. Accumulating evidence indicates that RAS regulates EPO, an essential mediator of red cell production, for human anemia and erythropoiesis in vivo and in vitro. The regulation of EPO expression by Ang II may be responsible for maintaining red blood cell homeostasis. This review highlights the biological roles of RAS for blood cell and EPO homeostasis through Ang II signaling. The molecular mechanism for Ang II-induced EPO production of the cell or tissue type-specific expression is discussed.