---
reference_id: PMID:29312576
title: Matrine inhibits BCR/ABL mediated ERK/MAPK pathway in human leukemia cells.
authors:
- Ma L
- Xu Z
- Wang J
- Zhu Z
- Lin G
- Jiang L
- Lu X
- Zou C
journal: Oncotarget
year: '2017'
doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.22353
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:20:03+00:00'
---

# Matrine inhibits BCR/ABL mediated ERK/MAPK pathway in human leukemia cells.
**Authors:** Ma L, Xu Z, Wang J, Zhu Z, Lin G, Jiang L, Lu X, Zou C
**Journal:** Oncotarget (2017)
**DOI:** [10.18632/oncotarget.22353](https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.22353)

## Content

The BCR/ABL fusion gene and its downstream signaling pathways such as Ras/Raf/MAPK, JAK/STAT3, and PI3K/AKT pathways play important roles in malignant transformation of leukemia, especially chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). Our previous study showed that matrine, an alkaloid extracted from a Chinese herb radix sophorae, significantly inhibited the proliferation of human CML K562cells, induced cell cycle arrest in G0/G1, and promoted cell apoptosis. In the present study, we investigated the molecular mechanism of matrine in the growth inhibition of leukemia cells using K562 and HL-60 cell lines. RT-PCR and Western blot assay demonstrated that the expression of BCR/ABL in K562 and HL-60 cells was significantly inhibited by matrine treatment. Phosphorylation of MEK1, ERK1/2, and their upstream adaptor molecules Shc and SHP2 were significantly downregulated. The protein and mRNA expression of components of the ERK/MAPK signal pathway, and Bcl-xL, Cyclin D1, and c-Myc, were dramatically reduced. Conversely, the expression of p27, a negative regulator of cell cycle progression, increased after matrine treatment. These results indicated that the inhibition of ERK/MAPK and BCR/ABL signaling pathway was associated with matrine's suppressive effects on the growth of K562 and HL-60 cells. In in vivo study, matrine significantly decreased the mortality rate of tumor-baring mice and suggested that matrine could exert its anti-leukemia effect in vivo.