---
reference_id: PMID:21393153
title: Mutations outside the rifampicin resistance-determining region associated with rifampicin resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
authors:
- Siu GK
- Zhang Y
- Lau TC
- Lau RW
- Ho PL
- Yew WW
- Tsui SK
- Cheng VC
- Yuen KY
- Yam WC
journal: The Journal of antimicrobial chemotherapy
year: '2011'
doi: 10.1093/jac/dkq519
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T19:01:31+00:00'
---

# Mutations outside the rifampicin resistance-determining region associated with rifampicin resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
**Authors:** Siu GK, Zhang Y, Lau TC, Lau RW, Ho PL, Yew WW, Tsui SK, Cheng VC, Yuen KY, Yam WC
**Journal:** The Journal of antimicrobial chemotherapy (2011)
**DOI:** [10.1093/jac/dkq519](https://doi.org/10.1093/jac/dkq519)

## Content

**OBJECTIVES:** Ninety-six percent of rifampicin resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis was shown to be associated with mutations inside the 81 bp rifampicin resistance-determining region (RRDR) located in the centre of the rpoB gene. The detection of rifampicin resistance by targeting the RRDR failed to match with a resistant phenotype in 4% of all cases. Our study aims to identify the mutations outside the RRDR that are associated with rifampicin resistance in M. tuberculosis.

**METHODS AND RESULTS:** Among 50 rifampicin-resistant and 20 rifampicin-susceptible clinical isolates of M. tuberculosis, 2 of the rifampicin-resistant isolates did not harbour any known mutations in the RRDR. Sequencing analysis of the whole rpoB gene identified two rare mutations, V146F and I572F. A molecular structure model based on Thermus thermophilus RpoB revealed that both these substituted amino acids are located in close proximity to the rifampicin-binding pocket of the β-subunit. Substitutions of simple amino acids for bulky ones are likely to affect the protein-drug interaction. Cloning and transformation of the mutated rpoB gene into wild-type Mycobacterium smegmatis and M. tuberculosis successfully elevated the MIC of rifampicin and conferred the rifampicin resistance phenotype.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Our study showed that amino acid positions 146 and 572 are associated with rifampicin resistance in M. tuberculosis in addition to the RRDR. Molecular assays for identifying rifampicin-resistant M. tuberculosis might be improved in terms of accuracy by including these two positions.