---
reference_id: PMID:31770254
title: "Young male with syphilitic cerebral arteritis presents with signs of acute progressive stroke: A case report."
authors:
- Shi M
- Zhou Y
- Li Y
- Zhu Y
- Yang B
- Zhong L
- Pan R
- Yang D
journal: Medicine
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000018147
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:14:28+00:00'
---

# Young male with syphilitic cerebral arteritis presents with signs of acute progressive stroke: A case report.
**Authors:** Shi M, Zhou Y, Li Y, Zhu Y, Yang B, Zhong L, Pan R, Yang D
**Journal:** Medicine (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1097/MD.0000000000018147](https://doi.org/10.1097/MD.0000000000018147)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** Neurosyphilis is a chronic infection of the central nervous system that is commonly found in adult with long latency periods. Neurosyphilis-attributed deaths in young patients have grown exponentially in the past decade, yet there have been few studies on the early stages of neurosyphilis.

**PATIENT CONCERNS:** A young male patient with syphilitic cerebral arteritis was evaluated in our clinic for the clinical signs of progressive ischemic stroke.

**DIAGNOSIS:** The progression of syphilitic cerebral arteritis was observed through computed tomography imaging, magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance angiogram, and transcranial color Doppler. The pathological changes and clinical outcomes were reviewed. In this specific case, the development of syphilitic cerebral arteritis was dynamic, continuous, and rapid. The pathogenesis was related to Heubner arteritis, in which the formation of a mural thrombus (MT) causes the severe obstruction of blood flow without complete occlusion, leading to an increased risk of infarction. In this patient, formation of the MT resulted in the infarction of the smaller vessels and narrowing of the larger vessels. The partial dislodgment of the MT from the arterial wall of the larger vessels occluded the smaller vessels, leading to infarction.

**INTERVENTIONS:** Standard pharmacotherapy for the treatment of the cerebral infarction and a single course of penicillin were applied.

**OUTCOMES:** Muscle strength was recovered. The Glasgow Coma Scale score was 15, whereas the NIH Stroke Scale score was 0. The increase in blood flow of the right MCA was accompanied by severe stenosis with compensation of the anterior communicating artery. In addition, moderate to severe stenosis of the right vertebral artery and the basilar artery was suspected. There was a possibility that the right posterior communicating artery was recruited for compensation.

**CONCLUSION:** Progressive stroke was the initial symptom of the neurosyphilis. Disease progression is rapid and difficult to control with a single course of penicillin.