---
reference_id: PMID:36990795
title: "[Diagnoses and new therapeutic strategy focused on physiological alteration of tryptophan metabolism]."
authors:
- Mouri A
- Hasegawa M
- Kunisawa K
- Saito K
- Nabeshima T
journal: Nihon yakurigaku zasshi. Folia pharmacologica Japonica
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1254/fpj.22139
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:06:32+00:00'
---

# [Diagnoses and new therapeutic strategy focused on physiological alteration of tryptophan metabolism].
**Authors:** Mouri A, Hasegawa M, Kunisawa K, Saito K, Nabeshima T
**Journal:** Nihon yakurigaku zasshi. Folia pharmacologica Japonica (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1254/fpj.22139](https://doi.org/10.1254/fpj.22139)

## Content

The monoamine hypothesis has been common hypotheses for the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). Since mainstream antidepressants are selective serotonin (5-HT) reuptake inhibitors, hypo-serotonergic function has been implicated in the MDD. However, one-third of patients are refractory to the treatment with antidepressants. Tryptophan (TRP) is metabolized via the kynurenine (KYN) and 5-HT pathways. Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) is the first metabolizing enzyme in the TRP-KYN pathway which is inducible by pro-inflammatory cytokines, involved depression-like behavior via 5-HT depletion due to decreased level of TRP in the 5-HT pathway. Kynurenine 3-monooxygenase (KMO) is the enzyme in the metabolism of KYN to 3-hydroxykynurenine. KMO deficiency increases level of kynurenic acid (KA), a KYN metabolite by kynurenine aminotransferases (KATs) and induces depression-like behavior. Interestingly, Chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) is associated with a disruption of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) system and increases KA level with decreased KMO expression in the prefrontal cortex. The decrease of KMO may be related to the reduction in expression of microglia, since KMO is mainly found in microglia in the nervous system. CUMS increases KA level via alternation of enzymes from KMO to KAT. KA is α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (α7nAChR) antagonist. Activation of α7nAChR by nicotine or galantamine attenuates CUMS-induced depression-like behaviors. Taken together, depletion of 5-HT by induction of IDO1 and α7nAChR antagonism by KA via decreased KMO expression cause depression-like behavior, suggesting that metabolic alterations in TRP-KYN pathway are highly involved in the pathophysiology of MDD. Therefore, TRP-KYN pathway is expected to be an attractive target for the development of novel diagnosis of MDD and antidepressants.