---
reference_id: PMID:29299971
title: "The role of the Fas/FasL signaling pathway in environmental toxicant-induced testicular cell apoptosis: An update."
authors:
- Wang M
- Su P
journal: Systems biology in reproductive medicine
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1080/19396368.2017.1422046
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:51:00+00:00'
---

# The role of the Fas/FasL signaling pathway in environmental toxicant-induced testicular cell apoptosis: An update.
**Authors:** Wang M, Su P
**Journal:** Systems biology in reproductive medicine (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1080/19396368.2017.1422046](https://doi.org/10.1080/19396368.2017.1422046)

## Content

**UNLABELLED:** The Fas/FasL signaling pathway is one of the major pathways that regulate apoptosis. Increasing studies have shown that the activation of the Fas/FasL signaling pathway is closely associated with testicular cell apoptosis. However, the mechanism involved is still unclear. We discuss recent findings regarding the molecular mechanisms by which environmental toxicants induce testicular pathology via Fas/FasL signaling. These findings suggest that Fas/FasL signaling is employed to impact the sensitivity (a response to external factors) of germ cells, disrupt steroidogenic hormone and cytokine metabolism mediated by Sertoli cells, and elicit the activation of NFAT (nuclear factor of activated T-cells) in Leydig cell apoptosis. Consequently, degeneration of testicular somatic (Sertoli and Leydig) and spermatogenic cells, leads to decreased numbers of mature sperm and subsequently translates into infertility issues. Collectively, these findings illustrate that it is beneficial to develop potential targets for a new generation of new pharmaceutical therapies that would alleviate testicular dysfunctions.

**ABBREVIATIONS:** BTB: blood-testis barrier; DD: death domains; DR3: death receptor 3; DR4: death receptor 4; DR5: death receptor 5; DED: death effector domain; DISC: death-inducing signaling complex; ERα: estrogen receptor alpha; FADD: Fas-associated death domain; FSH: follicle- stimulating hormone; IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; LH: luteinizing hormone; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; mFas: membrane Fas; MMP2: matrix metalloproteinase-2; MTA1: metastasis-associated protein 1; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NCCD: the Nomenclature Committee on Cell Death; NFAT: nuclear factor of activated T-cells; NF-kB: nuclear transcription factor-kappaB; NO: nitric oxide; NP: 4-nonylphenol; PCD: programmed cell death; PP1/PP2A: protein phosphatase 1 and 2A; ROS: reactive oxygen species; sFas: soluble Fas; T: testosterone; TGF-β: transforming growth factor-beta; THD: TNF homology domain; TIMP-2: tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor-alpha; TNF-R1: Tumor necrosis factor receptor 1; TNFRSF1A: TNF receptor superfamily member 1A.