---
reference_id: PMID:37184389
title: A Clinically Selected Staphylococcus aureus clpP Mutant Survives Daptomycin Treatment by Reducing Binding of the Antibiotic and Adapting a Rod-Shaped Morphology.
authors:
- Xu L
- Henriksen C
- Mebus V
- Guérillot R
- Petersen A
- Jacques N
- Jiang JH
- Derks RJE
- Sánchez-López E
- Giera M
- Leeten K
- Stinear TP
- Oury C
- Howden BP
- Peleg AY
- Frees D
journal: Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1128/aac.00328-23
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:50:27+00:00'
---

# A Clinically Selected Staphylococcus aureus clpP Mutant Survives Daptomycin Treatment by Reducing Binding of the Antibiotic and Adapting a Rod-Shaped Morphology.
**Authors:** Xu L, Henriksen C, Mebus V, Guérillot R, Petersen A, Jacques N, Jiang JH, Derks RJE, Sánchez-López E, Giera M, Leeten K, Stinear TP, Oury C, Howden BP, Peleg AY, Frees D
**Journal:** Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1128/aac.00328-23](https://doi.org/10.1128/aac.00328-23)

## Content

Daptomycin is a last-resort antibiotic used for the treatment of infections caused by Gram-positive antibiotic-resistant bacteria, such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Treatment failure is commonly linked to accumulation of point mutations; however, the contribution of single mutations to resistance and the mechanisms underlying resistance remain incompletely understood. Here, we show that a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) selected during daptomycin therapy inactivates the highly conserved ClpP protease and is causing reduced susceptibility of MRSA to daptomycin, vancomycin, and β-lactam antibiotics as well as decreased expression of virulence factors. Super-resolution microscopy demonstrated that inactivation of ClpP reduced binding of daptomycin to the septal site and diminished membrane damage. In both the parental strain and the clpP strain, daptomycin inhibited the inward progression of septum synthesis, eventually leading to lysis and death of the parental strain while surviving clpP cells were able to continue synthesis of the peripheral cell wall in the presence of 10× MIC daptomycin, resulting in a rod-shaped morphology. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that synthesis of the outer cell wall continues in the presence of daptomycin. Collectively, our data provide novel insight into the mechanisms behind bacterial killing and resistance to this important antibiotic. Also, the study emphasizes that treatment with last-line antibiotics is selective for mutations that, like the SNP in clpP, favor antibiotic resistance over virulence gene expression.