---
reference_id: PMID:14578611
title: Effects of atorvastatin and pravastatin on malondialdehyde-modified LDL in hypercholesterolemic patients.
authors:
- Tamura A
- Watanabe T
- Nasu M
journal: "Circulation journal : official journal of the Japanese Circulation Society"
year: '2003'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:36:33+00:00'
---

# Effects of atorvastatin and pravastatin on malondialdehyde-modified LDL in hypercholesterolemic patients.
**Authors:** Tamura A, Watanabe T, Nasu M
**Journal:** Circulation journal : official journal of the Japanese Circulation Society (2003)

## Content

The aim of the present study was to compare the effects of atorvastatin and pravastatin on lipid parameters and the concentration of malondialdehyde-modified low-density lipoprotein (MDA-LDL) in hypercholesterolemic patients. A total of 17 patients (10 men, 7 women; mean age, 68+/-9 years) who were indicated for drug therapy based on the National Cholesterol Education Program II underwent an 8-week regimen of atorvastatin (10 mg/day) or pravastatin (10 mg/day) with a 4-week washout period between drugs. After an overnight fast, lipid parameters and MDA-LDL concentration were measured before and after the 8-week treatment with each drug. Both atorvastatin and pravastatin produced significant reductions in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and MDA-LDL concentrations, with a significant increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration. The percent reductions in LDL cholesterol and MDA-LDL concentration were significantly greater with atorvastatin than pravastatin (46 +/-6% vs 24+/-10%, p<0.0001, and 44+/-10% vs 14+/-13%, p<0.0001, respectively). The ratios of percent reductions in MDA-LDL concentrations and percent reductions in LDL cholesterol concentrations were significantly greater for atorvastatin than pravastatin (0.96+/-0.19 vs 0.59+/-0.55, p<0.0001). In conclusion, atorvastatin reduced serum concentrations of LDL cholesterol and MDA-LDL to a greater degree than pravastatin, indicating that atorvastatin not only has stronger lipid-lowering effects, but also stronger antioxidative effects than pravastatin.