---
reference_id: PMID:25072399
title: Berberine promotes glucose consumption independently of AMP-activated protein kinase activation.
authors:
- Xu M
- Xiao Y
- Yin J
- Hou W
- Yu X
- Shen L
- Liu F
- Wei L
- Jia W
journal: PloS one
year: '2014'
doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103702
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:01:36+00:00'
---

# Berberine promotes glucose consumption independently of AMP-activated protein kinase activation.
**Authors:** Xu M, Xiao Y, Yin J, Hou W, Yu X, Shen L, Liu F, Wei L, Jia W
**Journal:** PloS one (2014)
**DOI:** [10.1371/journal.pone.0103702](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0103702)

## Content

Berberine is a plant alkaloid with anti-diabetic action. Activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway has been proposed as mechanism for berberine's action. This study aimed to examine whether AMPK activation was necessary for berberine's glucose-lowering effect. We found that in HepG2 hepatocytes and C2C12 myotubes, berberine significantly increased glucose consumption and lactate release in a dose-dependent manner. AMPK and acetyl coenzyme A synthetase (ACC) phosphorylation were stimulated by 20 µmol/L berberine. Nevertheless, berberine was still effective on stimulating glucose utilization and lactate production, when the AMPK activation was blocked by (1) inhibition of AMPK activity by Compound C, (2) suppression of AMPKα expression by siRNA, and (3) blockade of AMPK pathway by adenoviruses containing dominant-negative forms of AMPKα1/α2. To test the effect of berberine on oxygen consumption, extracellular flux analysis was performed in Seahorse XF24 analyzer. The activity of respiratory chain complex I was almost fully blocked in C2C12 myotubes by berberine. Metformin, as a positive control, showed similar effects as berberine. These results suggest that berberine and metformin promote glucose metabolism by stimulating glycolysis, which probably results from inhibition of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I, independent of AMPK activation.