---
reference_id: PMID:38653341
title: "A potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of hyperuricemia and gout: 3,4-Dihydroxy-5-nitrobenzaldehyde phenylthiosemicarbazide."
authors:
- Yu X
- Ren S
- Zhou J
- Liao Y
- Huang Y
- Dong H
journal: "European journal of pharmaceutical sciences : official journal of the European Federation for Pharmaceutical Sciences"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.ejps.2024.106778
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:08:40+00:00'
---

# A potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of hyperuricemia and gout: 3,4-Dihydroxy-5-nitrobenzaldehyde phenylthiosemicarbazide.
**Authors:** Yu X, Ren S, Zhou J, Liao Y, Huang Y, Dong H
**Journal:** European journal of pharmaceutical sciences : official journal of the European Federation for Pharmaceutical Sciences (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.ejps.2024.106778](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejps.2024.106778)

## Content

Uric acid, the metabolic product of purines, relies on xanthine oxidase (XOD) for production. XOD is a target for the development of drugs for hyperuricemia (HUA) and gout. Currently, treatment options remain limited for gout patients. 3, 4-Dihydroxy-5-nitrobenzaldehyde (DHNB) is a derivative of the natural product protocatechualdehyde with good biological activity. In this work, we identify a DHNB thiosemicarbazide class of compounds that targets XOD. 3,4-Dihydroxy-5-nitrobenzaldehyde phenylthiosemicarbazone can effectively inhibit XOD activity (IC50 value: 0.0437 μM) and exhibits a mixed inhibitory effect. In a mouse model of acute hyperuricemia, a moderate dose (10 mg/kg.w) of 3,4-dihydroxy-5-nitrobenzaldehyde phenylthiosemicarbazide effectively controlled the serum uric acid content and significantly inhibited serum XOD activity. In addition, 3,4-Dihydroxy-5-nitrobenzaldehyde phenylthiosemicarbazide showed favorable safety profiles, and mice treated with the target compound did not show any symptoms of general toxicity following a single dose of 500 mg/kg. In the allopurinol group, 50 % of the mice died. These results provide a structural framework and mechanism of XOD inhibition that may facilitate the design of hyperuricemia and gout treatments.