---
reference_id: PMID:37279545
title: "Serotonergic Neurotransmission in Limbic Regions May Reflect Therapeutic Response of Depressive Patients: A PET Study With 11C-WAY-100635 and 18F-MPPF."
authors:
- Kitamura S
- Kimura Y
- Takahata K
- Moriguchi S
- Kubota M
- Shimada H
- Endo H
- Takado Y
- Kawamura K
- Zhang MR
- Suhara T
- Higuchi M
journal: The international journal of neuropsychopharmacology
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1093/ijnp/pyad026
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:05:50+00:00'
---

# Serotonergic Neurotransmission in Limbic Regions May Reflect Therapeutic Response of Depressive Patients: A PET Study With 11C-WAY-100635 and 18F-MPPF.
**Authors:** Kitamura S, Kimura Y, Takahata K, Moriguchi S, Kubota M, Shimada H, Endo H, Takado Y, Kawamura K, Zhang MR, Suhara T, Higuchi M
**Journal:** The international journal of neuropsychopharmacology (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1093/ijnp/pyad026](https://doi.org/10.1093/ijnp/pyad026)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Central serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT]) neurotransmission has been implicated in the etiology of depression. Most antidepressants ameliorate depressive symptoms by increasing 5-HT at synaptic clefts, but their effect on 5-HT receptors has yet to be clarified. 11C-WAY-100635 and 18F-MPPF are positron emission tomography (PET) radioligands for 5-HT1A receptors. While binding of both ligands reflects 5-HT1A receptor density, 18F-MPPF biding may also be affected by extracellular 5-HT concentrations. This dual-tracer PET study explored the neurochemical substrates underlying antidepressant effects in patients with depression.

**METHODS:** Eleven patients with depression, including 9 treated with antidepressants, and 16 age- and sex-matched healthy individuals underwent PET scans with 11C-WAY-100635 and 18F-MPPF. Radioligand binding was determined by calculating the nondisplaceable binding potential (BPND).

**RESULTS:** Patients treated with antidepressants showed significantly lower 18F-MPPF BPND in neocortical regions and raphe nuclei, but not in limbic regions, than controls. No significant group differences in 11C-WAY-100635 BPND were found in any of the regions. Significant correlations of BPND between 11C-WAY-100635 and 18F-MPPF were observed in limbic regions and raphe nuclei of healthy controls, but no such associations were found in antidepressant-treated patients. Moreover, 18F-MPPF BPND in limbic regions was significantly correlated with the severity of depressive symptoms.

**CONCLUSIONS:** These results suggest a diversity of antidepressant-induced extracellular 5-HT elevations in the limbic system among depressive patients, which is associated with the individual variability of clinical symptoms following the treatment.