---
reference_id: PMID:29242563
title: CK2 modulates adipocyte insulin-signaling and is up-regulated in human obesity.
authors:
- Borgo C
- Milan G
- Favaretto F
- Stasi F
- Fabris R
- Salizzato V
- Cesaro L
- Belligoli A
- Sanna M
- Foletto M
- Prevedello L
- Vindigni V
- Bardini R
- Donella-Deana A
- Vettor R
journal: Scientific reports
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-17809-w
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:41:01+00:00'
---

# CK2 modulates adipocyte insulin-signaling and is up-regulated in human obesity.
**Authors:** Borgo C, Milan G, Favaretto F, Stasi F, Fabris R, Salizzato V, Cesaro L, Belligoli A, Sanna M, Foletto M, Prevedello L, Vindigni V, Bardini R, Donella-Deana A, Vettor R
**Journal:** Scientific reports (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41598-017-17809-w](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-17809-w)

## Content

Insulin plays a major role in glucose metabolism and insulin-signaling defects are present in obesity and diabetes. CK2 is a pleiotropic protein kinase implicated in fundamental cellular pathways and abnormally elevated in tumors. Here we report that in human and murine adipocytes CK2-inhibition decreases the insulin-induced glucose-uptake by counteracting Akt-signaling and GLUT4-translocation to the plasma membrane. In mice CK2 acts on insulin-signaling in adipose tissue, liver and skeletal muscle and its acute inhibition impairs glucose tolerance. Notably, CK2 protein-level and activity are greatly up-regulated in white adipose tissue from ob/ob and db/db mice as well as from obese patients, regardless the severity of their insulin-resistance and the presence of pre-diabetes or overt type 2 diabetes. Weight loss obtained by both bariatric surgery or hypocaloric diet reverts CK2 hyper-activation to normal level. Our data suggest a central role of CK2 in insulin-sensitivity, glucose homeostasis and adipose tissue remodeling. CK2 up-regulation is identified as a hallmark of adipose tissue pathological expansion, suggesting a new potential therapeutic target for human obesity.