---
reference_id: PMID:20103625
title: RBCK1 drives breast cancer cell proliferation by promoting transcription of estrogen receptor alpha and cyclin B1.
authors:
- Gustafsson N
- Zhao C
- Gustafsson JA
- Dahlman-Wright K
journal: Cancer research
year: '2010'
doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-09-2674
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:16:53+00:00'
---

# RBCK1 drives breast cancer cell proliferation by promoting transcription of estrogen receptor alpha and cyclin B1.
**Authors:** Gustafsson N, Zhao C, Gustafsson JA, Dahlman-Wright K
**Journal:** Cancer research (2010)
**DOI:** [10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-09-2674](https://doi.org/10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-09-2674)

## Content

Cell cycle regulatory pathways in breast cancer are incompletely described. Here, we report an important role in estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha)-positive breast cancer cells for the protein kinase C1 (PKC1)-interacting protein RBCK1 in supporting cell cycle progression by driving transcription of ERalpha and cyclin B1. RBCK1-depleted cells exhibited increased accumulation in G(2)-M phase of the cell cycle, decreased proliferation, and reduced mRNA levels for ERalpha and its target genes cyclin D1 and c-myc. Chromatin immunoprecipitation revealed that ERalpha transcription is associated with RBCK1 recruitment to the ERalpha promoter, suggesting that transcriptional regulation is one mechanism by which RBCK1 affects ERalpha mRNA levels. G(2)-M phase arrest was mediated independently from reduced ERalpha levels, instead associated with transcriptional inhibition of the key G(2)-M regulator cyclin B1. In breast tumor samples, there was a positive correlation between levels of RBCK1, ERalpha, and cyclin B1 mRNA levels. Our findings suggest that RBCK1 regulates cell cycle progression and proliferation of ERalpha-positive breast cancer cells by supporting transcription of ERalpha and cyclin B1.