---
reference_id: PMID:37876291
title: "Contemporary pharmacologic treatments of MRSA for hospitalized adults: rationale for vancomycin versus non-vancomycin therapies as first line agents."
authors:
- Chang J
- Tasellari A
- Wagner JL
- Scheetz MH
journal: Expert review of anti-infective therapy
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1080/14787210.2023.2275663
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:52:04+00:00'
---

# Contemporary pharmacologic treatments of MRSA for hospitalized adults: rationale for vancomycin versus non-vancomycin therapies as first line agents.
**Authors:** Chang J, Tasellari A, Wagner JL, Scheetz MH
**Journal:** Expert review of anti-infective therapy (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1080/14787210.2023.2275663](https://doi.org/10.1080/14787210.2023.2275663)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) remains an important pathogen in the hospital setting and causes significant morbidity and mortality each year. Since the initial discovery over 60 years ago, vancomycin has remained a first-line treatment for many different types of MRSA infections. However, significant concerns related to target attainment and nephrotoxicity have spurred efforts to develop more effective agents in the last two decades.

**AREAS COVERED:** Newer anti-MRSA antibiotics that have been approved since 2000 include linezolid, daptomycin, and ceftaroline. As clinical evidence has accumulated, these newer agents have become more frequently used, and some are now recommended as co-first-line options (along with vancomycin) in clinical practice guidelines. For this review, a scoping review of the literature was conducted to support our findings and recommendations.

**EXPERT OPINION:** Vancomycin remains an important standard of care for MRSA infections but is limited with respect to nephrotoxicity and rapid target attainment. Newer agents such as linezolid, daptomycin, and ceftaroline have specific indications for treating different types of MRSA infections; however, newer agents also have unique attributes which require consideration during therapy.