---
reference_id: PMID:35714445
title: "In-hospital outcomes of Ticagrelor versus Clopidogrel in high bleeding risk patients with acute coronary syndrome: Findings from the CCC-ACS project."
authors:
- Wang Y
- Yang N
- Suo M
- Liu X
- Wang Z
- Zhang X
- Liu J
- Zhao D
- Wu X
- CCC-ACS Investigators
journal: Thrombosis research
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2022.04.004
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:13:41+00:00'
---

# In-hospital outcomes of Ticagrelor versus Clopidogrel in high bleeding risk patients with acute coronary syndrome: Findings from the CCC-ACS project.
**Authors:** Wang Y, Yang N, Suo M, Liu X, Wang Z, Zhang X, Liu J, Zhao D, Wu X, CCC-ACS Investigators
**Journal:** Thrombosis research (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.thromres.2022.04.004](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.thromres.2022.04.004)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** The optimal P2Y12 inhibitor in high bleeding risk (HBR) patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) remains unclear. We compared the in-hospital efficacy and safety of ticagrelor versus clopidogrel in ACS patients at HBR.

**METHODS:** We identified 22,120 hospitalized ACS patients with HBR treated with aspirin combined with either clopidogrel (n = 17,420) or ticagrelor (n = 4700) in the Improving Care for Cardiovascular Disease in China-ACS (CCC-ACS) project between November 2014 and December 2019.

**RESULTS:** The median length of hospital stay was 10 days (interquartile range, 7-14 days). Compared with clopidogrel, ticagrelor was associated with a higher risk of in-hospital TIMI major or minor bleeding (4.8% vs 3.8%; adjusted OR 1.20; 95% CI 1.03-1.41; P = 0.022). The incidence of TIMI major bleeding (1.7% vs 1.1%, P = 0.005) and intracranial bleeding (0.8% vs 0.5%, P = 0.005) were also higher in the ticagrelor group than in the clopidogrel group. There was no significant difference in the rate of in-hospital major adverse cardiovascular and cerebrovascular event (MACCE) (a composite of all-cause death, myocardial infarction, stent thrombosis, or ischemic stroke) with ticagrelor compared with clopidogrel therapy (4.2% vs 4.3%; adjusted OR 1.08; 95% CI 0.90-1.28; P = 0.411). Outcomes in the propensity-matched cohorts and in sensitivity analyses were consistent with the those of the main analysis.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Among ACS patients with HBR, ticagrelor as compared with clopidogrel was associated with an increased risk of in-hospital major bleeding without a significant reduction in in-hospital MACCE.

**CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION:** https://www.

**CLINICALTRIALS:** gov. Unique identifier: NCT02306616.