---
reference_id: PMID:19179411
title: "Rituximab and mycophenolate mofetil for relapsing proliferative lupus nephritis: a long-term prospective study."
authors:
- Boletis JN
- Marinaki S
- Skalioti C
- Lionaki SS
- Iniotaki A
- Sfikakis PP
journal: "Nephrology, dialysis, transplantation : official publication of the European Dialysis and Transplant Association - European Renal Association"
year: '2009'
doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfp002
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:54:28+00:00'
---

# Rituximab and mycophenolate mofetil for relapsing proliferative lupus nephritis: a long-term prospective study.
**Authors:** Boletis JN, Marinaki S, Skalioti C, Lionaki SS, Iniotaki A, Sfikakis PP
**Journal:** Nephrology, dialysis, transplantation : official publication of the European Dialysis and Transplant Association - European Renal Association (2009)
**DOI:** [10.1093/ndt/gfp002](https://doi.org/10.1093/ndt/gfp002)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Subsequent to cyclophosphamide-based induction therapy of lupus nephritis, and despite maintenance chronic immunosuppressive treatment, many patients experience relapses.

**METHODS:** This prospective, observational study included 10 women with biopsy-proven relapse of proliferative lupus nephritis occurring during maintenance with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) or azathioprine. The long-term outcome after a single course of the B-cell depleting anti-CD20 antibody rituximab (4 weekly infusions of 375 mg/m(2)), combined with daily MMF (2 g) and prednisolone (0.5 mg/ kg/day for 4 weeks, tapered thereafter) is presented.

**RESULTS:** While renal function was not severely impaired at baseline, partial remission (>50% improvement in all abnormal renal parameters) was achieved in eight patients at a median of 3.5 months. In seven patients, with 24-h urinary protein of 2.5 +/- 1.1 g (mean +/- SD), complete remission, associated with increases in serum complement levels and decreases in anti-dsDNA titres, was subsequently established (normal serum creatinine/albumin levels, inactive urine sediment and 24-h urinary protein <0.5 g). Complete nephritis remission was sustained at the follow-up end (median of 38 months) in six patients. Combination treatment was well tolerated.

**CONCLUSIONS:** The efficacy of this low-toxicity combination was particularly evident in patients with subnephrotic proteinuria due to proliferative lupus nephritis relapse. Controlled trials to define the role of rituximab/MMF in this condition are warranted.