---
reference_id: PMID:35279654
title: Study on the Interaction between Deuterium Clopidogrel and Omeprazole.
authors:
- Xu Z
- Chen L
- Liu Y
- Chen C
- Sun Y
- Miao Y
- Wu T
- Niu J
- Wei J
- Cao X
journal: Pharmacology
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1159/000521721
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:15:37+00:00'
---

# Study on the Interaction between Deuterium Clopidogrel and Omeprazole.
**Authors:** Xu Z, Chen L, Liu Y, Chen C, Sun Y, Miao Y, Wu T, Niu J, Wei J, Cao X
**Journal:** Pharmacology (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1159/000521721](https://doi.org/10.1159/000521721)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** Dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin in combination with a P2Y12 receptor antagonist is a cornerstone for treating patients with acute coronary syndrome and in percutaneous coronary intervention. However, as this combination of antiplatelet therapy increases the risk of bleeding, proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are currently recommended to prevent gastrointestinal ulcers and bleeding. The cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzyme system metabolizes both clopidogrel (CLP) and PPIs. Unfortunately, omeprazole (OM) reduce the antiplatelet activity of CLP and increases the probability of recurrence of cardiovascular events by competitively inhibiting the CYP450 isoenzyme CYP2C19.

**METHODS:** To address these abovementioned problems, we designed and synthesized deuterium CLP (D-CL) using selective deuterium technology. Our previous research results showed that D-CL had better pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties. Thus, the HPLC-MS/MS method, cocktail method, Born method, electro-stimulated thrombus generation, and thrombus elastography were used to detect the production of thiol active metabolites (AM), CYP450 enzyme activities, platelet aggregation, time and length of thrombus formation, and the maximum clot strength after combination therapy. We investigated the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics properties of D-CL combined with OM.

**RESULTS:** As compared to CLP, D-CL was less affected when combined with OM, which was reflected in lower inhibitory effects of CYP450 enzyme activities, a greater area under the curve of AM, and better antiplatelet and antithrombotic effects.

**CONCLUSION:** D-CL may reduce drug-drug interactions and address the clinical disadvantages of CLP.