---
reference_id: PMID:34217665
title: Incidence of Device-Related Thrombosis in Watchman Patients Undergoing a Genotype-Guided Antithrombotic Strategy.
authors:
- Della Rocca DG
- Horton RP
- Di Biase L
- Gianni C
- Trivedi C
- Mohanty S
- Anannab A
- Magnocavallo M
- Chen Q
- Tarantino N
- Bassiouny M
- Lavalle C
- Natale VN
- Forleo GB
- Del Prete A
- Van Niekerk CJ
- Al-Ahmad A
- Burkhardt JD
- Gallinghouse GJ
- Sanchez JE
- Lakkireddy D
- Gibson DN
- Natale A
journal: JACC. Clinical electrophysiology
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1016/j.jacep.2021.04.012
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:13:44+00:00'
---

# Incidence of Device-Related Thrombosis in Watchman Patients Undergoing a Genotype-Guided Antithrombotic Strategy.
**Authors:** Della Rocca DG, Horton RP, Di Biase L, Gianni C, Trivedi C, Mohanty S, Anannab A, Magnocavallo M, Chen Q, Tarantino N, Bassiouny M, Lavalle C, Natale VN, Forleo GB, Del Prete A, Van Niekerk CJ, Al-Ahmad A, Burkhardt JD, Gallinghouse GJ, Sanchez JE, Lakkireddy D, Gibson DN, Natale A
**Journal:** JACC. Clinical electrophysiology (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jacep.2021.04.012](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacep.2021.04.012)

## Content

**OBJECTIVES:** This study sought to report the incidence of device-related thrombosis (DRT) and thromboembolic (TE) events when an alternative to clopidogrel is prescribed in loss-of-function (LOF) allele carriers of the cytochrome P450 2C19 (CYP2C19) gene.

**BACKGROUND:** LOF polymorphisms of the CYP2C19 gene are associated with reduced hepatic bioactivation of clopidogrel.

**METHODS:** A total of 1,002 Watchman patients were included. Six hundred forty-five patients underwent CYP2C19 genetic testing; among patients with clopidogrel resistance, clopidogrel was replaced by either prasugrel (pilot cohort) or half dose direct oral anticoagulant ([DOAC]/Group 1), both in combination with aspirin. We compared the incidence of DRT/TE events among genotyped patients and a control group which received standard dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) (Group 2; n = 357). All reported events occurred during a timeframe between 45- and 180-day follow-up transesophageal echocardiograms, when the 2 different antithrombotic strategies (genotype-guided vs standard DAPT) were adopted.

**RESULTS:** In the pilot cohort (n = 244), bleeding events occurred in 10.2% of patients who received aspirin plus prasugrel, leading to early discontinuation of the prasugrel-based protocol. DOAC Group 1 patients (n = 401), 25.7% were reduced metabolizers, and clopidogrel was replaced by half dose direct oral anticoagulant. DRT was documented in 1 (0.2%) patient of Group 1 and 7 (1.96%) patients of Group 2 (log-rank P = 0.021). The composite endpoint of DRT/TE events was significantly lower among patients receiving a genotype-guided antithrombotic strategy (0.75% vs 3.10%; log-rank P = 0.017).

**CONCLUSIONS:** In Watchman patients, a genotype-based antithrombotic strategy with aspirin plus half dose DOAC in reduced clopidogrel metabolizers was superior to standard DAPT with respect to DRT/TE events.