---
reference_id: PMID:22767591
title: "Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) activity bound to insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) receptor, which is continuously sustained by IGF-I stimulation, is required for IGF-I-induced cell proliferation."
authors:
- Fukushima T
- Nakamura Y
- Yamanaka D
- Shibano T
- Chida K
- Minami S
- Asano T
- Hakuno F
- Takahashi S
journal: The Journal of biological chemistry
year: '2012'
doi: 10.1074/jbc.M112.393074
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:40:59+00:00'
---

# Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) activity bound to insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) receptor, which is continuously sustained by IGF-I stimulation, is required for IGF-I-induced cell proliferation.
**Authors:** Fukushima T, Nakamura Y, Yamanaka D, Shibano T, Chida K, Minami S, Asano T, Hakuno F, Takahashi S
**Journal:** The Journal of biological chemistry (2012)
**DOI:** [10.1074/jbc.M112.393074](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M112.393074)

## Content

Continuous stimulation of cells with insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) in G(1) phase is a well established requirement for IGF-induced cell proliferation; however, the molecular components of this prolonged signaling pathway that is essential for cell cycle progression from G(1) to S phase are unclear. IGF-I activates IGF-I receptor (IGF-IR) tyrosine kinase, followed by phosphorylation of substrates such as insulin receptor substrates (IRS) leading to binding of signaling molecules containing SH2 domains, including phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) to IRS and activation of the downstream signaling pathways. In this study, we found prolonged (>9 h) association of PI3K with IGF-IR induced by IGF-I stimulation. PI3K activity was present in this complex in thyrocytes and fibroblasts, although tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS was not yet evident after 9 h of IGF-I stimulation. IGF-I withdrawal in mid-G(1) phase impaired the association of PI3K with IGF-IR and suppressed DNA synthesis the same as when PI3K inhibitor was added. Furthermore, we demonstrated that Tyr(1316)-X-X-Met of IGF-IR functioned as a PI3K binding sequence when this tyrosine is phosphorylated. We then analyzed IGF signaling and proliferation of IGF-IR(-/-) fibroblasts expressing exogenous mutant IGF-IR in which Tyr(1316) was substituted with Phe (Y1316F). In these cells, IGF-I stimulation induced tyrosine phosphorylation of IGF-IR and IRS-1/2, but mutated IGF-IR failed to bind PI3K and to induce maximal phosphorylation of GSK3β and cell proliferation in response to IGF-I. Based on these results, we concluded that PI3K activity bound to IGF-IR, which is continuously sustained by IGF-I stimulation, is required for IGF-I-induced cell proliferation.