---
reference_id: PMID:35670121
title: Chemoprevention of Colitis-Associated Dysplasia or Cancer in Inflammatory Bowel Disease.
authors:
- Hsiao SW
- Yen HH
- Chen YY
journal: Gut and liver
year: '2022'
doi: 10.5009/gnl210479
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:49:15+00:00'
---

# Chemoprevention of Colitis-Associated Dysplasia or Cancer in Inflammatory Bowel Disease.
**Authors:** Hsiao SW, Yen HH, Chen YY
**Journal:** Gut and liver (2022)
**DOI:** [10.5009/gnl210479](https://doi.org/10.5009/gnl210479)

## Content

The association between inflammatory bowel disease and colorectal cancer is well known. Although the overall incidence of inflammatory bowel disease has declined recently, patients with this disease still have a 1.7-fold increased risk of colorectal cancer. The risk factors for developing colorectal cancer include extensive colitis, young age at diagnosis, disease duration, primary sclerosing cholangitis, chronic colonic mucosal inflammation, dysplasia lesion, and post-inflammatory polyps. In patients with inflammatory bowel disease, control of chronic inflammation and surveillance colonoscopies are important for the prevention of colorectal cancer. The 2017 guidelines from the European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation suggest that colonoscopies to screen for colorectal cancer should be performed when inflammatory bowel disease symptoms have lasted for 8 years. Current evidence supports the use of chemoprevention therapy with mesalamine to reduce the risk of colorectal cancer in patients with ulcerative colitis. Other compounds, including thiopurine, folic acid, statin, and tumor necrosis factor-α inhibitor, are controversial. Large surveillance cohort studies with longer follow-up duration are needed to evaluate the impact of drugs on colorectal cancer risks.