---
reference_id: PMID:21266512
title: Thyroid hormone and COUP-TF1 regulate kallikrein-binding protein (KBP) gene expression.
authors:
- Liu YY
- Nakatani T
- Kogai T
- Mody K
- Brent GA
journal: Endocrinology
year: '2011'
doi: 10.1210/en.2010-0580
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:06:51+00:00'
---

# Thyroid hormone and COUP-TF1 regulate kallikrein-binding protein (KBP) gene expression.
**Authors:** Liu YY, Nakatani T, Kogai T, Mody K, Brent GA
**Journal:** Endocrinology (2011)
**DOI:** [10.1210/en.2010-0580](https://doi.org/10.1210/en.2010-0580)

## Content

Kallikrein-binding protein (KBP) is a component of the kallikrein-kinin system that mediates vasodilation and inhibits tumor growth by antagonizing vascular endothelial growth factor-mediated angiogenesis. We demonstrate that KBP gene expression is repressed by T(3) and modulated by the orphan nuclear receptor, chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor 1 (COUP-TF1). In hypothyroid mice, KBP mRNA expression in the testis was increased 2.1-fold compared with euthyroid mice. We have identified two negative thyroid hormone response elements (nTREs) in the mouse KBP gene, nTRE1 located in the 5' flanking region (-53 to -29) and nTRE2, located in the first intron (104-132). We used functional assays, cofactor knockdown, and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays to characterize nTRE1 and nTRE2 in hepatic (HepG2) and testes (GC-1spg) cell lines. Reporter expression directed by both elements was enhanced with addition of thyroid hormone receptor and repressed with the addition of T(3). COUP-TF1 enhanced basal expression of both elements but blunted unliganded thyroid hormone receptor enhancement and T(3) repression of nTRE1 but not nTRE2. Both nTREs bound nuclear corepressor and binding increased in response to T(3). Nuclear corepressor knockdown resulted in loss of T(3) repression of both nTRE1 and nTRE2. COUP-TF1, which usually represses T(3) induction of positive thyroid hormone response elements, reverses T(3) repression mediated by nTRE1 in the mouse KBP gene. Endogenous KBP expression is repressed by T(3) and two functional nTREs, both of which are required, have been characterized in the KBP gene. COUP-TF1 may be an important factor to modulate expression of genes that are repressed by T(3).