---
reference_id: PMID:38652958
title: Geniposide ameliorates psoriatic skin inflammation by inhibiting the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB p65 signaling pathway and MMP9.
authors:
- Liu L
- Zhang H
- Tang X
- Zhang M
- Wu Y
- Zhao Y
- Lu C
- Zhao R
journal: International immunopharmacology
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2024.112082
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:58:17+00:00'
---

# Geniposide ameliorates psoriatic skin inflammation by inhibiting the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB p65 signaling pathway and MMP9.
**Authors:** Liu L, Zhang H, Tang X, Zhang M, Wu Y, Zhao Y, Lu C, Zhao R
**Journal:** International immunopharmacology (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.intimp.2024.112082](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intimp.2024.112082)

## Content

Psoriasis is an incurable immune-mediated disease affecting the skin or the joints. There are continuing studies on drugs for psoriasis prevention and treatment. This research found that Geniposide (GE) significantly thinned IMQ mice's skin lesions, reduced the scales, and lowered the presence of inflammatory cells in the pathology in a dose-dependent manner. GE inhibited IL-23, IL-22, IL-17A, IL-12, IL-6, and TNF-α levels in psoriatic mice serum. AKT1, TNF, TLR4, MMP9, MAPK3, and EGFR were selected as the top 6 targets of GE against psoriasis via network pharmacology, and GE-TLR4 has the most robust docking score value by molecular docking. Taken together, GE significantly inhibited TLR4 and MMP9 protein expression and influenced MyD88/NF-κB p65 signaling pathway. Finally, TLR4 was verified as the critical target of GE, which engaged in immunomodulatory activities and reduced MMP9 production in LPS and TAK-242-induced HaCaT cells. GE had a medium affinity for TLR4, and the KD value was 1.06 × 10-5 M. GE is an effective treatment and preventative strategy for psoriasis since it impacts TLR4.