---
reference_id: PMID:28373190
title: Delamanid Kills Dormant Mycobacteria In Vitro and in a Guinea Pig Model of Tuberculosis.
authors:
- Chen X
- Hashizume H
- Tomishige T
- Nakamura I
- Matsuba M
- Fujiwara M
- Kitamoto R
- Hanaki E
- Ohba Y
- Matsumoto M
journal: Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1128/AAC.02402-16
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:30:16+00:00'
---

# Delamanid Kills Dormant Mycobacteria In Vitro and in a Guinea Pig Model of Tuberculosis.
**Authors:** Chen X, Hashizume H, Tomishige T, Nakamura I, Matsuba M, Fujiwara M, Kitamoto R, Hanaki E, Ohba Y, Matsumoto M
**Journal:** Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1128/AAC.02402-16](https://doi.org/10.1128/AAC.02402-16)

## Content

Tuberculosis (TB) treatment is long and requires multiple drugs, likely due to various phenotypes of TB bacilli with variable drug susceptibilities. Drugs with broad activity are urgently needed. This study aimed to evaluate delamanid's activity against growing or dormant bacilli in vitro as well as in vivo Cultures of Mycobacterium bovis BCG Tokyo under aerobic and anaerobic conditions were used to study the activity of delamanid against growing and dormant bacilli, respectively. Delamanid exhibited significant bactericidal activity against replicating and dormant bacilli at or above concentrations of 0.016 and 0.4 mg/liter, respectively. To evaluate delamanid's antituberculosis activity in vivo, we used a guinea pig model of chronic TB infection in which the lung lesions were similar to those in human TB disease. In the guinea pig TB model, a daily dose of 100 mg delamanid/kg of body weight for 4 or 8 weeks demonstrated strong bactericidal activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis Importantly, histological examination revealed that delamanid killed TB bacilli within hypoxic lesions of the lung. The combination regimens containing delamanid with rifampin and pyrazinamide or delamanid with levofloxacin, ethionamide, pyrazinamide, and amikacin were more effective than the standard regimen (rifampin, isoniazid, and pyrazinamide). Our data show that delamanid is effective in killing both growing and dormant bacilli in vitro and in the guinea pig TB model. Adding delamanid to current TB regimens may improve treatment outcomes, as demonstrated in recent clinical trials with pulmonary multidrug-resistant (MDR) TB patients. Delamanid may be an important drug for consideration in the construction of new regimens to shorten TB treatment duration.