---
reference_id: PMID:12044803
title: Evaluation of the effects of anti-thromboxane agents in platelet-vessel wall interaction.
authors:
- Buccellati C
- Ciceri P
- Ballerio R
- Casagrande C
- Folco G
- Nicosia S
journal: European journal of pharmacology
year: '2002'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:01:42+00:00'
---

# Evaluation of the effects of anti-thromboxane agents in platelet-vessel wall interaction.
**Authors:** Buccellati C, Ciceri P, Ballerio R, Casagrande C, Folco G, Nicosia S
**Journal:** European journal of pharmacology (2002)

## Content

We evaluated the capacity of anti-aggregating agents to influence thromboxane A(2) and prostacyclin formation, arachidonic acid-endoperoxide redirection, platelet aggregation and vessel tone, in isolated rabbit aorta incubated with homologous platelets. Picotamide (N,N'bis(3-pyridinylmethyl)-4-methoxy-isophthalamide), the only dual thromboxane A(2)-synthase inhibitor/receptor antagonist in clinical use, inhibited arachidonic acid-induced platelet aggregation with low potency, increased 180-fold by aorta presence. It inhibited thromboxane A(2) formation in platelets and, in aorta presence, increased prostacyclin formation. Ozagrel (OKY-046, (E)-3-(4-(1-imidazolylmethyl)phenyl)-2-propenoic acid), a pure thromboxane A(2)-synthase inhibitor, behaved similarly to picotamide, although the aorta caused a higher (600-fold) shift. The potency of the antagonist SQ 29,548 (1S-(1 alpha,2 beta(5Z),3 beta,4 alpha))-7-(3((2-((phenylamino)carbonyl)hydrazino)methyl)-7-oxabicyclo(2.2.1)hept-2-yl)-5-heptenoic acid) was unaffected by aorta. In coincubation experiments, arachidonic acid-challenge increased thromboxane A(2)-dependent vessel tone; picotamide increased prostacyclin and reduced thromboxane A(2) formation and vasoconstriction. Ozagrel mimicked picotamide; aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) reduced aorta contractility, thromboxane A(2) and prostacyclin formation. SQ 29,548 reduced vasoconstriction without affecting eicosanoids. We demonstrate the importance of redirection of eicosanoids in the mechanism of action of thromboxane A(2) inhibitors/antagonists within platelet-vascular wall interactions. These findings bear relevance in the development of novel anti-thrombotic drugs.