---
reference_id: PMID:33417228
title: "Modified Snake α-Neurotoxin Averts β-Amyloid Binding to α7 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor and Reverses Cognitive Deficits in Alzheimer's Disease Mice."
authors:
- Fonar G
- Polis B
- Sams DS
- Levi A
- Malka A
- Bal N
- Maltsev A
- Elliott E
- Samson AO
journal: Molecular neurobiology
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1007/s12035-020-02270-0
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:42:38+00:00'
---

# Modified Snake α-Neurotoxin Averts β-Amyloid Binding to α7 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor and Reverses Cognitive Deficits in Alzheimer's Disease Mice.
**Authors:** Fonar G, Polis B, Sams DS, Levi A, Malka A, Bal N, Maltsev A, Elliott E, Samson AO
**Journal:** Molecular neurobiology (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s12035-020-02270-0](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12035-020-02270-0)

## Content

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of senile dementia and one of the greatest medical, social, and economic challenges. According to a dominant theory, amyloid-β (Aβ) peptide is a key AD pathogenic factor. Aβ-soluble species interfere with synaptic functions, aggregate gradually, form plaques, and trigger neurodegeneration. The AD-associated pathology affects numerous systems, though the substantial loss of cholinergic neurons and α7 nicotinic receptors (α7AChR) is critical for the gradual cognitive decline. Aβ binds to α7AChR under various experimental settings; nevertheless, the functional significance of this interaction is ambiguous. Whereas the capability of low Aβ concentrations to activate α7AChR is functionally beneficial, extensive brain exposure to high Aβ concentrations diminishes α7AChR activity, contributes to the cholinergic deficits that characterize AD. Aβ and snake α-neurotoxins competitively bind to α7AChR. Accordingly, we designed a chemically modified α-cobratoxin (mToxin) to inhibit the interaction between Aβ and α7AChR. Subsequently, we examined mToxin in a set of original in silico, in vitro, ex vivo experiments, and in a murine AD model. We report that mToxin reversibly inhibits α7AChR, though it attenuates Aβ-induced synaptic transmission abnormalities, and upregulates pathways supporting long-term potentiation and reducing apoptosis. Remarkably, mToxin demonstrates no toxicity in brain slices and mice. Moreover, its chronic intracerebroventricular administration improves memory in AD-model animals. Our results point to unique mToxin neuroprotective properties, which might be tailored for the treatment of AD. Our methodology bridges the gaps in understanding Aβ-α7AChR interaction and represents a promising direction for further investigations and clinical development.