---
reference_id: PMID:8692035
title: "Hyperglycemia-induced latent scurvy and atherosclerosis: the scorbutic-metaplasia hypothesis."
authors:
- Price KD
- Price CS
- Reynolds RD
journal: Medical hypotheses
year: '1996'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:16:04+00:00'
---

# Hyperglycemia-induced latent scurvy and atherosclerosis: the scorbutic-metaplasia hypothesis.
**Authors:** Price KD, Price CS, Reynolds RD
**Journal:** Medical hypotheses (1996)

## Content

Latent scurvy is characterized by a reversible atherosclerosis that closely resembles the clinical form of this disease. Acute scurvy is characterized by microvascular complications such as widespread capillary hemorrhaging. Vitamin C (ascorbate) is required for the synthesis of collagen, the protein most critical in the maintenance of vascular integrity. We suggest that in latent scurvy, large blood vessels use modified LDL--in particular lipoprotein(a)--in addition to collagen to maintain macrovascular integrity. By this mechanism, collagen is spared for the maintenance of capillaries, the sites of gas and nutrient exchange. The foam-cell phenotype of atherosclerosis is identified as a mesenchymal genetic program, regulated by the availability of ascorbate. When vitamin C is limited, foam cells develop and induce oxidative modification of LDL, thereby stabilizing large blood vessels via the deposition of LDL. The structural similarity between vitamin C and glucose suggests that hyperglycemia will inhibit cellular uptake of ascorbate, inducing local vitamin C deficiency.