---
reference_id: PMID:22647807
title: "[Treatment of arterial and venous brain ischemia. Experts' recommendations: stroke management in the intensive care unit]."
authors:
- Calvet D
- Bracard S
- Mas JL
- French Society of Intensive Care
journal: Revue neurologique
year: '2012'
doi: 10.1016/j.neurol.2012.01.587
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:14:45+00:00'
---

# [Treatment of arterial and venous brain ischemia. Experts' recommendations: stroke management in the intensive care unit].
**Authors:** Calvet D, Bracard S, Mas JL, French Society of Intensive Care
**Journal:** Revue neurologique (2012)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.neurol.2012.01.587](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurol.2012.01.587)

## Content

With thrombolysis, intravenous alteplase (0.9 mg/kg body weight, maximum 90 mg), with 10% of the dose given as a bolus followed by a 60-minute infusion, is recommended within 4.5 hours of onset of ischemic stroke. When indicated, intravenous thrombolysis must be initiated as soon as possible. It is possible to use intravenous alteplase in patients with seizures at stroke onset, if the neurological deficit is related to acute cerebral ischemia. Intravenous alteplase can be discussed for use on a case-by-case basis, according to risk of bleeding, in selected patients under 18 years and over 80 years of age, although for the current European recommendations this would be an off-label use. In hospitals with a stroke unit, intravenous thrombolysis is prescribed by a neurologist (current French labelling) or a physician having the French certification for neurovascular diseases (outside the current French labelling). The patient must be monitored in the stroke unit or in case of multiple organ failure in an intensive and critical care unit. In hospitals without a stroke unit, thrombolysis must be decided by the neurologist from the corresponding stroke unit via telemedicine. It is recommended to perform brain imaging 24 hours after thromboysis. Intra-arterial thrombolysis can be contemplated on a case-by-case basis after multidisciplinary discussion within a 6-hour time window for patients with acute middle cerebral artery or carotid occlusions, and within a larger time window for patients with basilar artery occlusion, because of their very poor spontaneous prognosis. Mechanical thrombectomy can also be contemplated in the same situations. With antiplatelet agents, it is recommended that patients receive aspirin (160 mg-325 mg) within 48 hours of ischemic stroke onset. When thrombolysis is performed or contemplated, it is recommended to delay the initiation of aspirin or other antithrombotic drugs for 24 hours. The use of antiplatelet agents that inhibit the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor is not recommended. Urgent anticoagulation using heparin, low-molecular-weight heparins or danaparoid with the goal to treat ischemic stroke patients is not recommended. Secondary prevention by anticoagulation can be used, immediately or within the first days, after minor ischemic stroke or TIA in patients with a high risk for cardioembolism, if uncontrolled hypertension is absent. In patients with large infarcts and a high risk for cardioembolism, the timing for initiating anticoagulation must be decided on a case-by-case basis. In patients with anticoagulation who had an ischemic stroke, the decision to temporarily stop or maintain anticoagulation must be made on a case-by-case basis, depending on thromboembolic risk, level of anticoagulation at stroke onset and estimated risk of hemorrhagic transformation. It is not recommended to use neuroprotective agents in ischemic stroke patients. Patients with cerebral venous thrombosis must be treated with therapeutic doses of heparin, even in case of concomitant intracranial hemorrhage related to cerebral venous thrombosis. If the patient's status worsens despite adequate anticoagulation, thrombolysis may be used in selected cases. The optimal administration route (local or intravenous), thrombolytic agent (urokinase or alteplase) and dose are unknown. There is currently no recommendation with regard to local thrombolytic therapy in patients with dural sinus thrombosis. Urgent blood transfusions are recommended to reduce hemoglobin S to <30% in patients with sickle cell disease and acute ischemic stroke.