---
reference_id: PMID:12586780
title: Elevated levels of epidermal growth factor receptor/c-erbB2 heterodimers mediate an autocrine growth regulatory pathway in tamoxifen-resistant MCF-7 cells.
authors:
- Knowlden JM
- Hutcheson IR
- Jones HE
- Madden T
- Gee JM
- Harper ME
- Barrow D
- Wakeling AE
- Nicholson RI
journal: Endocrinology
year: '2003'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:44:50+00:00'
---

# Elevated levels of epidermal growth factor receptor/c-erbB2 heterodimers mediate an autocrine growth regulatory pathway in tamoxifen-resistant MCF-7 cells.
**Authors:** Knowlden JM, Hutcheson IR, Jones HE, Madden T, Gee JM, Harper ME, Barrow D, Wakeling AE, Nicholson RI
**Journal:** Endocrinology (2003)

## Content

The development of acquired resistance to antihormonal agents in breast cancer is a major therapeutic problem. We have developed a tamoxifen-resistant (TAM-R) MCF-7 breast cancer cell line to investigate the mechanisms behind this condition. Both epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and c-erbB2 mRNA and protein expression were increased in TAM-R compared with wild-type MCF-7 cells, whereas comparable levels of c-erbB3 mRNA and protein were expressed in both cell lines. Under basal conditions, phosphorylated EGFR/c-erbB2, EGFR/c-erbB3 but not c-erbB2/c-erbB3 receptor heterodimers were detected in TAM-R cells in association with increased levels of phosphorylated extracellular-signal regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2). Both cell lines were capable of generating a range of EGFR-specific ligands and increased expression of transforming growth factor alpha was observed in TAM-R cells. Treatment of TAM-R cells with ZD1839 (Iressa) or trastuzumab (Herceptin) blocked c-erbB receptor heterodimer formation and phosphorylation, reduced ERK1/2 activity, and strongly inhibited cell growth. The MAPK kinase inhibitor PD098059 specifically reduced phosphorylated ERK1/2 levels and inhibited TAM-R growth. All three agents abolished ERK1/2 activity in wild-type cells but caused only small reductions in cell proliferation. These results demonstrate that TAM-R MCF-7 cell growth is mediated by the autocrine release and action of an EGFR-specific ligand inducing preferential EGFR/c-erbB2 dimerization and downstream activation of the ERK pathway.