---
reference_id: PMID:30458861
title: Cleavage of the extracellular domain of junctional adhesion molecule-A is associated with resistance to anti-HER2 therapies in breast cancer settings.
authors:
- Leech AO
- Vellanki SH
- Rutherford EJ
- Keogh A
- Jahns H
- Hudson L
- "O'Donovan N"
- Sabri S
- Abdulkarim B
- Sheehan KM
- Kay EW
- Young LS
- Hill ADK
- Smith YE
- Hopkins AM
journal: "Breast cancer research : BCR"
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1186/s13058-018-1064-1
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:35:02+00:00'
---

# Cleavage of the extracellular domain of junctional adhesion molecule-A is associated with resistance to anti-HER2 therapies in breast cancer settings.
**Authors:** Leech AO, Vellanki SH, Rutherford EJ, Keogh A, Jahns H, Hudson L, O'Donovan N, Sabri S, Abdulkarim B, Sheehan KM, Kay EW, Young LS, Hill ADK, Smith YE, Hopkins AM
**Journal:** Breast cancer research : BCR (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1186/s13058-018-1064-1](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13058-018-1064-1)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Junctional adhesion molecule-A (JAM-A) is an adhesion molecule whose overexpression on breast tumor tissue has been associated with aggressive cancer phenotypes, including human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER2)-positive disease. Since JAM-A has been described to regulate HER2 expression in breast cancer cells, we hypothesized that JAM-dependent stabilization of HER2 could participate in resistance to HER2-targeted therapies.

**METHODS:** Using breast cancer cell line models resistant to anti-HER2 drugs, we investigated JAM-A expression and the effect of JAM-A silencing on biochemical/functional parameters. We also tested whether altered JAM-A expression/processing underpinned differences between drug-sensitive and -resistant cells and acted as a biomarker of patients who developed resistance to HER2-targeted therapies.

**RESULTS:** Silencing JAM-A enhanced the anti-proliferative effects of anti-HER2 treatments in trastuzumab- and lapatinib-resistant breast cancer cells and further reduced HER2 protein expression and Akt phosphorylation in drug-treated cells. Increased epidermal growth factor receptor expression observed in drug-resistant models was normalized upon JAM-A silencing. JAM-A was highly expressed in all of a small cohort of HER2-positive patients whose disease recurred following anti-HER2 therapy. High JAM-A expression also correlated with metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis in another patient cohort resistant to trastuzumab therapy. Importantly, cleavage of JAM-A was increased in drug-resistant cell lines in conjunction with increased expression of ADAM-10 and -17 metalloproteases. Pharmacological inhibition or genetic silencing studies suggested a particular role for ADAM-10 in reducing JAM-A cleavage and partially re-sensitizing drug-resistant cells to the anti-proliferative effects of HER2-targeted drugs. Functionally, recombinant cleaved JAM-A enhanced breast cancer cell invasion in vitro and both invasion and proliferation in a semi-in vivo model. Finally, cleaved JAM-A was detectable in the serum of a small cohort of HER2-positive patients and correlated significantly with resistance to HER2-targeted therapy.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Collectively, our data suggest a novel model whereby increased expression and cleavage of JAM-A drive tumorigenic behavior and act as a biomarker and potential therapeutic target for resistance to HER2-targeted therapies.