---
reference_id: PMID:1562458
title: "DNA fragmentation, dATP pool elevation and potentiation of antifolate cytotoxicity in L1210 cells by hypoxanthine."
authors:
- Kwok JB
- Tattersall MH
journal: British journal of cancer
year: '1992'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:25:23+00:00'
---

# DNA fragmentation, dATP pool elevation and potentiation of antifolate cytotoxicity in L1210 cells by hypoxanthine.
**Authors:** Kwok JB, Tattersall MH
**Journal:** British journal of cancer (1992)

## Content

Exogenous purines (greater than or equal to 10(-5)M) can modulate the cytotoxicity of methotrexate (MTX) in cultured cells, protecting cells at low MTX concentrations (less than or equal to 8 x 10(-8) M) and markedly potentiating its effect at higher concentrations. The ability of hypoxanthine (HX) to modulate the effects of two antifolates-ICI 198583 (an inhibitor of thymidylate synthetase) and piritrexim (PTX, a lipophilic inhibitor of DHFR)-was investigated using cultured mouse leukaemic cells, L1210. HX (10(-4) M) was found to potentiate only the cytotoxicity of DHFR inhibitors (MTS and PTX), increasing cell kill by 20-70 fold to the level achieved by an equivalent concentration (10(-5) M) of ICI 198583 alone. Agarose gel electrophoresis of DNA extracted from cells exposed to antifolates for 24 h demonstrated that the chromatin was cleaved into multimers of 200 base pairs. This pattern of DNA cleavage indicates cell death via apoptosis. The degree of DNA fragmentation was found to be closely linked to cytotoxicity. DNA fragmentation increased from 50% in cells treated with 10(-5) M MTX or PTX to 70% when HX was added with the drugs, a level achieved by 10(-5)M ICI 198583 alone. HX potentiation of cytotoxicity was correlated with a substantial increase in dATP in conjunction with low dTTP pools. The specific potentiation of DHFR inhibitors by HX may be due to their inhibition of purine synthesis with a concurrent rise in PRPP levels. Addition of HX with MTX substantially raised intracellular purine levels via the salvage pathway as indicated by ribonucleotide pool measurements. ICI 198583, on the other hand, stimulated de novo purine synthesis with or without added HX. Treatment with MTX plus HX or ICI 198583 (with or without HX) caused a reduction of dTTP pools to 8% of untreated control and excess dATP accumulation. The subsequent elevation (to 300% of control) of the dATP pool may provide a signal for endonucleolytic fragmentation of DNA and subsequent cell death.