---
reference_id: PMID:37139869
title: Atorvastatin-mediated inhibition of prenylation of Rab27b and Rap1a in platelets attenuates their prothrombotic capacity and modulates clot structure.
authors:
- Jalal MM
- Whyte CS
- Coxon FP
- Mutch NJ
journal: Platelets
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1080/09537104.2023.2206921
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:03:36+00:00'
---

# Atorvastatin-mediated inhibition of prenylation of Rab27b and Rap1a in platelets attenuates their prothrombotic capacity and modulates clot structure.
**Authors:** Jalal MM, Whyte CS, Coxon FP, Mutch NJ
**Journal:** Platelets (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1080/09537104.2023.2206921](https://doi.org/10.1080/09537104.2023.2206921)

## Content

Statins inhibit the mevalonate pathway by impairing protein prenylation via depletion of lipid geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP). Rab27b and Rap1a are small GTPase proteins involved in dense granule secretion, platelet activation, and regulation. We analyzed the impact of statins on prenylation of Rab27b and Rap1a in platelets and the downstream effects on fibrin clot properties. Whole blood thromboelastography revealed that atorvastatin (ATV) delayed clot formation time (P < .005) and attenuated clot firmness (P < .005). ATV pre-treatment inhibited platelet aggregation and clot retraction. Binding of fibrinogen and P-selectin exposure on stimulated platelets was significantly lower following pre-treatment with ATV (P < .05). Confocal microscopy revealed that ATV significantly altered the structure of platelet-rich plasma clots, consistent with the reduced fibrinogen binding. ATV enhanced lysis of Chandler model thrombi 1.4-fold versus control (P < .05). Western blotting revealed that ATV induced a dose-dependent accumulation of unprenylated Rab27b and Rap1a in the platelet membrane. ATV dose-dependently inhibited ADP release from activated platelets. Exogenous GGPP rescued the prenylation of Rab27b and Rap1a, and partially restored the ADP release defect, suggesting these changes arise from reduced prenylation of Rab27b. These data demonstrate that statins attenuate platelet aggregation, degranulation, and binding of fibrinogen thereby having a significant impact on clot contraction and structure.