---
reference_id: PMID:31889482
title: Effects of Medium Chain Fatty Acids on Intestinal Health of Monogastric Animals.
authors:
- Jia M
- Zhang Y
- Gao Y
- Ma X
journal: "Current protein & peptide science"
year: '2020'
doi: 10.2174/1389203721666191231145901
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:50:48+00:00'
---

# Effects of Medium Chain Fatty Acids on Intestinal Health of Monogastric Animals.
**Authors:** Jia M, Zhang Y, Gao Y, Ma X
**Journal:** Current protein & peptide science (2020)
**DOI:** [10.2174/1389203721666191231145901](https://doi.org/10.2174/1389203721666191231145901)

## Content

Medium-chain fatty acids (MCFAs) are the main form of Medium Chain Triglycerides (MCTs) utilized by monogastric animals. MCFAs can be directly absorbed and supply rapid energy to promote the renewal and repair of intestinal epithelial cells, maintain the integrity of intestinal mucosal barrier function, and reduce inflammation and stress. In our review, we pay more attention to the role of MCFAs on intestinal microbiota and mucosa immunity to explore MCFA's positive effect. It was found that MCFAs and their esterified forms can decrease pathogens while increasing probiotics. In addition, being recognized via specific receptors, MCFAs are capable of alleviating inflammation to a certain extent by regulating inflammation and immune-related pathways. MCFAs may also have a certain value to relieve intestinal allergy and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Unknown mechanism of various MCFA characteristics still causes dilemmas in the application, thus MCFAs are used generally in limited dosages and combined with short-chain organic acids (SOAs) to attain ideal results. We hope that further studies will provide guidance for the practical use of MCFAs in animal feed.