---
reference_id: PMID:37495178
title: BDNF/TrkB pathway activation in D1 receptor-expressing striatal projection neurons plays a protective role against L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
authors:
- Pelosi A
- Nakamura Y
- Girault JA
- Hervé D
journal: Neurobiology of disease
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2023.106238
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T21:02:41+00:00'
---

# BDNF/TrkB pathway activation in D1 receptor-expressing striatal projection neurons plays a protective role against L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
**Authors:** Pelosi A, Nakamura Y, Girault JA, Hervé D
**Journal:** Neurobiology of disease (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.nbd.2023.106238](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2023.106238)

## Content

L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) is a frequent adverse side effect of L-DOPA treatment in Parkinson's disease (PD). Understanding the mechanisms underlying the development of these motor disorders is needed to reduce or prevent them. We investigated the role of TrkB receptor in LID, in hemiparkinsonian mice treated by chronic L-DOPA administration. Repeated L-DOPA treatment for 10 days specifically increased full-length TrkB receptor mRNA and protein levels in the dopamine-depleted dorsal striatum (DS) compared to the contralateral non-lesioned DS or to the DS of sham-operated animals. Dopamine depletion alone or acute L-DOPA treatment did not significantly increase TrkB protein levels. In addition to increasing TrkB protein levels, chronic L-DOPA treatment activated the TrkB receptor as evidenced by its increased tyrosine phosphorylation. Using specific agonists for the D1 or D2 receptors, we found that TrkB increase is D1 receptor-dependent. To determine the consequences of these effects, the TrkB gene was selectively deleted in striatal neurons expressing the D1 receptor. Mice with TrkB floxed gene were injected with Cre-expressing adeno-associated viruses or crossed with Drd1-Cre transgenic mice. After unilateral lesion of dopamine neurons in these mice, we found an aggravation of axial LID compared to the control groups. In contrast, no change was found when TrkB deletion was induced in the indirect pathway D2 receptor-expressing neurons. Our study suggests that BDNF/TrkB signaling plays a protective role against the development of LID and that agonists specifically activating TrkB could reduce the severity of LID.