---
reference_id: PMID:18280815
title: "PCSK9: an enigmatic protease."
authors:
- Lopez D
journal: Biochimica et biophysica acta
year: '2008'
doi: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2008.01.003
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-30T20:05:06+00:00'
---

# PCSK9: an enigmatic protease.
**Authors:** Lopez D
**Journal:** Biochimica et biophysica acta (2008)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.bbalip.2008.01.003](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbalip.2008.01.003)

## Content

Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) plays a critical role in cholesterol metabolism by controlling the levels of low density lipoprotein (LDL) particles that circulate in the bloodstream. Several gain-of-function and loss-of-function mutations in the PCSK9 gene, that occur naturally, have been identified and linked to hypercholesterolemia and hypocholesterolemia, respectively. PCSK9 expression has been shown to be regulated by sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs) and statins similar to other genes involved in cholesterol homeostasis. The most critical finding concerning PCSK9 is that this protease is able to influence the number of LDL receptor molecules expressed on the cell surface. Studies have demonstrated that PCSK9 acts mainly by enhancing degradation of LDL receptor protein in the liver. Inactivation of PCSK9 in mice reduces plasma cholesterol levels primarily by increasing hepatic expression of LDL receptor protein and thereby accelerating clearance of circulating LDL cholesterol. The objective of this review is to summarize the current information related to the regulation and function of PCSK9 and to identify gaps in our present knowledge.