---
reference_id: PMID:36296329
title: The Protective Effects of Nutraceutical Components in Methotrexate-Induced Toxicity Models-An Overview.
authors:
- Marin GE
- Neag MA
- Burlacu CC
- Buzoianu AD
journal: Microorganisms
year: '2022'
doi: 10.3390/microorganisms10102053
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T22:46:24+00:00'
---

# The Protective Effects of Nutraceutical Components in Methotrexate-Induced Toxicity Models-An Overview.
**Authors:** Marin GE, Neag MA, Burlacu CC, Buzoianu AD
**Journal:** Microorganisms (2022)
**DOI:** [10.3390/microorganisms10102053](https://doi.org/10.3390/microorganisms10102053)

## Content

There are multiple concerns associated with methotrexate (MTX), widely recognized for anti-neoplastic and anti-inflammatory effects in life-threatening disease conditions, i.e., acute lymphoblastic leukemia, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, psoriasis, and rheumatoid arthritis, due to long-term side effects and associated toxicity, which limits its valuable potential. MTX acts as an inhibitor of dihydrofolate reductase, leading to suppression of purine and pyrimidine synthesis in high metabolic and turnover cells, targeting cancer and dysregulated immune cells. Due to low discrimination between neoplastic cells and naturally high turnover cells, MTX is prone to inhibiting the division of all fast-dividing cells, causing toxicity in multiple organs. Nutraceutical compounds are plant-based or food-derived compounds, used for their preventive and therapeutic role, ascertained in multiple organ dysfunctions, including cardiovascular disease, ischemic stroke, cancer, and neurodegenerative diseases. Gut microbiota and microbiota-derived metabolites take part in multiple physiological processes, their dysregulation being involved in disease pathogenesis. Modulation of gut microbiota by using nutraceutical compounds represents a promising therapeutic direction to restore intestinal dysfunction associated with MTX treatment. In this review, we address the main organ dysfunctions induced by MTX treatment, and modulations of them by using nutraceutical compounds. Moreover, we revealed the protective mechanisms of nutraceuticals in MTX-induced intestinal dysfunctions by modulation of gut microbiota.