---
reference_id: PMID:36325883
title: "Increasing brain glucose uptake by Gypenoside LXXV ameliorates cognitive deficits in a mouse model of diabetic Alzheimer's disease."
authors:
- Meng X
- Zhang Y
- Li Z
- Ma G
- Zhang X
- Zhang D
- Cao W
- Wang S
- Cai Q
- Cui P
- Huang G
journal: "Phytotherapy research : PTR"
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1002/ptr.7639
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-07-01T23:41:16+00:00'
---

# Increasing brain glucose uptake by Gypenoside LXXV ameliorates cognitive deficits in a mouse model of diabetic Alzheimer's disease.
**Authors:** Meng X, Zhang Y, Li Z, Ma G, Zhang X, Zhang D, Cao W, Wang S, Cai Q, Cui P, Huang G
**Journal:** Phytotherapy research : PTR (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1002/ptr.7639](https://doi.org/10.1002/ptr.7639)

## Content

We have previously reported that Gypenoside LXXV (GP-75), a novel natural PPARγ agonist isolated from Gynostemma pentaphyllum, ameliorated cognitive deficits in db/db mice. In this study, we further investigated the beneficial effects on cognitive impairment in APP/PS1 mice and a mouse model of diabetic AD (APP/PS1xdb/db mice). Interestingly, intragastric administration of GP-75 (40 mg/kg/day) for 3 months significantly attenuated cognitive deficits in APP/PS1 and APP/PS1xdb/db mice. GP-75 treatment markedly reduced the levels of glucose, HbA1c and insulin in serum and improved glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity in APP/PS1xdb/db mice. Notably, GP-75 treatment decreased the β-amyloid (Aβ) burden, as measured by 11 C-PIB PET imaging. Importantly, GP-75 treatment increased brain glucose uptake as measured by 18 F-FDG PET imaging. Moreover, GP-75 treatment upregulated PPARγ and increased phosphorylation of Akt (Ser473) and GLUT4 expression levels but decreased phosphorylation of IRS-1 (Ser616) in the hippocampi of both APP/PS1 and APP/PS1xdb/db mice. Furthermore, GP-75-induced increases in GLUT4 membrane translocation in primary hippocampal neurons from APP/PS1xdb/db mice was abolished by cotreatment with the selective PPARγ antagonist GW9662 or the PI3K inhibitor LY294002. In summary, GP-75 ameliorated cognitive deficits in APP/PS1 and APP/PS1xdb/db mice by enhancing glucose uptake via activation of the PPARγ/Akt/GLUT4 signaling pathways.