---
reference_id: PMID:36959211
title: Imatinib blocks tyrosine phosphorylation of Smad4 and restores TGF-β growth-suppressive signaling in BCR-ABL1-positive leukemia.
authors:
- Wang L
- Gu S
- Chen F
- Yu Y
- Cao J
- Li X
- Gao C
- Chen Y
- Yuan S
- Liu X
- Qin J
- Zhao B
- Xu P
- Liang T
- Tong H
- Lin X
- Feng XH
journal: Signal transduction and targeted therapy
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1038/s41392-023-01327-5
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:00:59+00:00'
---

# Imatinib blocks tyrosine phosphorylation of Smad4 and restores TGF-β growth-suppressive signaling in BCR-ABL1-positive leukemia.
**Authors:** Wang L, Gu S, Chen F, Yu Y, Cao J, Li X, Gao C, Chen Y, Yuan S, Liu X, Qin J, Zhao B, Xu P, Liang T, Tong H, Lin X, Feng XH
**Journal:** Signal transduction and targeted therapy (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41392-023-01327-5](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41392-023-01327-5)

## Content

Loss of TGF-β-mediated growth suppression is a major contributor to the development of cancers, best exemplified by loss-of-function mutations in genes encoding components of the TGF-β signaling pathway in colorectal and pancreatic cancers. Alternatively, gain-of-function oncogene mutations can also disrupt antiproliferative TGF-β signaling. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying oncogene-induced modulation of TGF-β signaling have not been extensively investigated. Here, we show that the oncogenic BCR-ABL1 of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) and the cellular ABL1 tyrosine kinases phosphorylate and inactivate Smad4 to block antiproliferative TGF-β signaling. Mechanistically, phosphorylation of Smad4 at Tyr195, Tyr301, and Tyr322 in the linker region interferes with its binding to the transcription co-activator p300/CBP, thereby blocking the ability of Smad4 to activate the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitors and induce cell cycle arrest. In contrast, the inhibition of BCR-ABL1 kinase with Imatinib prevented Smad4 tyrosine phosphorylation and re-sensitized CML cells to TGF-β-induced antiproliferative and pro-apoptotic responses. Furthermore, expression of phosphorylation-site-mutated Y195F/Y301F/Y322F mutant of Smad4 in Smad4-null CML cells enhanced antiproliferative responses to TGF-β, whereas the phosphorylation-mimicking Y195E/Y301E/Y322E mutant interfered with TGF-β signaling and enhanced the in vivo growth of CML cells. These findings demonstrate the direct role of BCR-ABL1 tyrosine kinase in suppressing TGF-β signaling in CML and explain how Imatinib-targeted therapy restored beneficial TGF-β anti-growth responses.