---
reference_id: PMID:29439327
title: "Stabilized Low-n Amyloid-β Oligomers Induce Robust Novel Object Recognition Deficits Associated with Inflammatory, Synaptic, and GABAergic Dysfunction in the Rat."
authors:
- Watremez W
- Jackson J
- Almari B
- McLean SL
- Grayson B
- Neill JC
- Fischer N
- Allouche A
- Koziel V
- Pillot T
- Harte MK
journal: "Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD"
year: '2018'
doi: 10.3233/JAD-170489
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:28:40+00:00'
---

# Stabilized Low-n Amyloid-β Oligomers Induce Robust Novel Object Recognition Deficits Associated with Inflammatory, Synaptic, and GABAergic Dysfunction in the Rat.
**Authors:** Watremez W, Jackson J, Almari B, McLean SL, Grayson B, Neill JC, Fischer N, Allouche A, Koziel V, Pillot T, Harte MK
**Journal:** Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD (2018)
**DOI:** [10.3233/JAD-170489](https://doi.org/10.3233/JAD-170489)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** With current treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD) only providing temporary symptomatic benefits, disease modifying drugs are urgently required. This approach relies on improved understanding of the early pathophysiology of AD. A new hypothesis has emerged, in which early memory loss is considered a synapse failure caused by soluble amyloid-β oligomers (Aβo). These small soluble Aβo, which precede the formation of larger fibrillar assemblies, may be the main cause of early AD pathologies.

**OBJECTIVE:** The aim of the current study was to investigate the effect of acute administration of stabilized low-n amyloid-β1-42 oligomers (Aβo1-42) on cognitive, inflammatory, synaptic, and neuronal markers in the rat.

**METHODS:** Female and male Lister Hooded rats received acute intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of either vehicle or 5 nmol of Aβo1-42 (10μL). Cognition was assessed in the novel object recognition (NOR) paradigm at different time points. Levels of inflammatory (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α), synaptic (PSD-95, SNAP-25), and neuronal (n-acetylaspartate, parvalbumin-positive cells) markers were investigated in different brain regions (prefrontal and frontal cortex, striatum, dorsal and ventral hippocampus).

**RESULTS:** Acute ICV administration of Aβo1-42 induced robust and enduring NOR deficits. These deficits were reversed by acute administration of donepezil and rolipram but not risperidone. Postmortem analysis revealed an increase in inflammatory markers, a decrease in synaptic markers and parvalbumin containing interneurons in the frontal cortex, with no evidence of widespread neuronal loss.

**CONCLUSION:** Taken together the results suggest that acute administration of soluble low-n Aβo may be a useful model to study the early mechanisms involved in AD and provide us with a platform for testing novel therapeutic approaches that target the early underlying synaptic pathology.