---
reference_id: PMID:38876439
title: "Two pathways regulate insulin-like growth factor genes in the brain and liver of the tropical damselfish Chrysiptera cyanea: A possible role for melatonin in the actions of growth and thyroid hormones."
authors:
- Rizky D
- Byun JH
- Mahardini A
- Fukunaga K
- Udagawa S
- Pringgenies D
- Takemura A
journal: "Comparative biochemistry and physiology. Part A, Molecular & integrative physiology"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.cbpa.2024.111679
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:39:22+00:00'
---

# Two pathways regulate insulin-like growth factor genes in the brain and liver of the tropical damselfish Chrysiptera cyanea: A possible role for melatonin in the actions of growth and thyroid hormones.
**Authors:** Rizky D, Byun JH, Mahardini A, Fukunaga K, Udagawa S, Pringgenies D, Takemura A
**Journal:** Comparative biochemistry and physiology. Part A, Molecular & integrative physiology (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.cbpa.2024.111679](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cbpa.2024.111679)

## Content

External and internal factors are involved in controlling the growth of fishes. However, little is known about the mechanisms by which external factors trigger stimulus signals. This study explored the physiological roles of melatonin in the transcription of growth-related genes in the brain and liver of Chrysiptera cyanea, a tropical damselfish with long-day preference. In brain samples of this species collected at 4-h intervals, the transcript levels of arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase2 (aanat2), the rate-limiting enzyme of melatonin synthesis, and growth hormone (gh) peaked at 20:00 and 00:00, respectively. Concomitantly, the transcript levels of insulin-like growth factors (igf1 and igf2) in the brain and liver were upregulated during the scotophase. Levels of iodothyronine deiodinases (dio2 and dio3), enzymes that convert thyroxine (T4) to triiodothyronine (T3) and reverse T3, respectively, increased in the brain (dio2 and dio3) and liver (dio2) during the photophase, whereas dio3 levels in the liver showed the opposite trend. Fish reared in melatonin-containing water exhibited significant increases in the transcription levels of gh and igf1 in the brain and igf1 in the liver, suggesting that growth in this fish is positively regulated by the GH/IGF pathway on a daily basis. Melatonin treatment also stimulated the transcript levels of dio2 and dio3 in the liver, but not in the brain. Fish consuming pellets containing T3, but not T4, showed significant increases in gh and igf1 in the brain and igf1 and igf2 in the liver, suggesting that the intercellular actions of the TH/IGF pathway have an impact on growth on a daily basis. In summary, IGF synthesis and action in the brain and liver undergo dual regulation by distinct hormone networks, which may also be affected by daily, seasonal, or nutritional factors.