---
reference_id: PMID:38603763
title: A protective role for type I interferon signaling following infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis carrying the rifampicin drug resistance-conferring RpoB mutation H445Y.
authors:
- Bobba S
- Chauhan KS
- Akter S
- Das S
- Mittal E
- Mathema B
- Philips JA
- Khader SA
journal: PLoS pathogens
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1012137
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:18:04+00:00'
---

# A protective role for type I interferon signaling following infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis carrying the rifampicin drug resistance-conferring RpoB mutation H445Y.
**Authors:** Bobba S, Chauhan KS, Akter S, Das S, Mittal E, Mathema B, Philips JA, Khader SA
**Journal:** PLoS pathogens (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1371/journal.ppat.1012137](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.ppat.1012137)

## Content

Interleukin-1 (IL-1) signaling is essential for controlling virulent Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection since antagonism of this pathway leads to exacerbated pathology and increased susceptibility. In contrast, the triggering of type I interferon (IFN) signaling is associated with the progression of tuberculosis (TB) disease and linked with negative regulation of IL-1 signaling. However, mice lacking IL-1 signaling can control Mtb infection if infected with an Mtb strain carrying the rifampin-resistance conferring mutation H445Y in its RNA polymerase β subunit (rpoB-H445Y Mtb). The mechanisms that govern protection in the absence of IL-1 signaling during rpoB-H445Y Mtb infection are unknown. In this study, we show that in the absence of IL-1 signaling, type I IFN signaling controls rpoB-H445Y Mtb replication, lung pathology, and excessive myeloid cell infiltration. Additionally, type I IFN is produced predominantly by monocytes and recruited macrophages and acts on LysM-expressing cells to drive protection through nitric oxide (NO) production to restrict intracellular rpoB-H445Y Mtb. These findings reveal an unexpected protective role for type I IFN signaling in compensating for deficiencies in IL-1 pathways during rpoB-H445Y Mtb infection.