---
reference_id: PMID:34718921
title: MicroRNA-506 modulates insulin resistance in human adipocytes by targeting S6K1 and altering the IRS1/PI3K/AKT insulin signaling pathway.
authors:
- Zhong FY
- Li J
- Wang YM
- Chen Y
- Song J
- Yang Z
- Zhang L
- Tian T
- Hu YF
- Qin ZY
journal: Journal of bioenergetics and biomembranes
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1007/s10863-021-09923-2
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:41:27+00:00'
---

# MicroRNA-506 modulates insulin resistance in human adipocytes by targeting S6K1 and altering the IRS1/PI3K/AKT insulin signaling pathway.
**Authors:** Zhong FY, Li J, Wang YM, Chen Y, Song J, Yang Z, Zhang L, Tian T, Hu YF, Qin ZY
**Journal:** Journal of bioenergetics and biomembranes (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s10863-021-09923-2](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10863-021-09923-2)

## Content

The incidence of obesity has increased rapidly, becoming a worldwide public health issue that involves insulin resistance. A growing number of recent studies have demonstrated that microRNAs play a significant role in controlling the insulin signaling network. For example, miR-506-3p expression has been demonstrated to correlate with insulin sensitivity; however, the underlying mechanism remains unknown. In this study, we found that miR-506-3p enhanced glucose uptake by 2-deoxy-D-glucose uptake assays and regulated the protein expression of key genes involved in the PI3K/AKT insulin signaling pathway including IRS1, PI3K, AKT, and GlUT4. We next predicted ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1 (S6K1) to be a candidate target of miR-506-3p by bioinformatics analysis and confirmed using dual-luciferase assays that miR-506-3p regulated S6K1 expression by binding to its 3'-UTR. Moreover, modulating S6K1 expression counteracted the effects of miR-506-3p on glucose uptake and PI3K/AKT pathway activation. In conclusion, miR-506-3p altered IR in adipocytes by regulating S6K1-mediated PI3K/AKT pathway activation. Taken together, these findings provide novel insights and potential targets for IR therapy.