---
reference_id: PMID:38986734
title: PI3K PROTAC overcomes the lapatinib resistance in PIK3CA-mutant HER2 positive breast cancer.
authors:
- Zhang H
- Zhang L
- He Y
- Jiang D
- Sun J
- Luo Q
- Liang H
- Wang T
- Li F
- Tang Y
- Yang Z
- Liu W
- Rao Y
- Chen C
journal: Cancer letters
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2024.217112
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:20:43+00:00'
---

# PI3K PROTAC overcomes the lapatinib resistance in PIK3CA-mutant HER2 positive breast cancer.
**Authors:** Zhang H, Zhang L, He Y, Jiang D, Sun J, Luo Q, Liang H, Wang T, Li F, Tang Y, Yang Z, Liu W, Rao Y, Chen C
**Journal:** Cancer letters (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.canlet.2024.217112](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.canlet.2024.217112)

## Content

Although anti-HER2 therapy has made significant strides in reducing metastasis and relapse in HER2-positive breast cancer, resistance to agents like trastuzumab, pertuzumab, and lapatinib frequently develops in patients undergoing treatment. Previous studies suggest that the hyperactivation of the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway by PIK3CA/PTEN gene mutations is implicated in HER2 resistance. In this study, we introduce a novel PI3K-p110α Proteolysis TAargeting Chimera (PROTAC) that effectively inhibits the proliferation of breast cancer cells by degrading PI3K-p110α. When tested in two lapatinib-resistant cell lines, JIMT1 and MDA-MB-453, both of which harbor PIK3CA mutations, the PI3K PROTAC notably reduced cell proliferation and induced G1 phase cell cycle arrest. Importantly, even at very low concentrations, PI3K PROTAC restored sensitivity to lapatinib. Furthermore, the efficacy of PI3K PROTAC surpassed that of Alpelisib, a selective PI3K-p110α kinase inhibitor in clinic. The superior performance of PI3K PROTAC was also confirmed in lapatinib-resistant breast cancer xenograft tumors and patient-derived breast cancer organoids (PDOs). In conclusion, this study reveals that the novel PI3K PROTAC we synthesized could serve as an effective agent to overcome lapatinib resistance.