---
reference_id: PMID:40887336
title: SPON2 acts as a tumor promoter in HR-positive/HER2-negative breast cancer by regulating β-catenin signaling.
authors:
- Liu GY
- Huang DP
- Ge C
- Li XY
- Chen F
- Fan JS
- Tu HP
journal: Clinical breast cancer
year: '2026'
doi: 10.1016/j.clbc.2025.07.030
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:21:10+00:00'
---

# SPON2 acts as a tumor promoter in HR-positive/HER2-negative breast cancer by regulating β-catenin signaling.
**Authors:** Liu GY, Huang DP, Ge C, Li XY, Chen F, Fan JS, Tu HP
**Journal:** Clinical breast cancer (2026)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.clbc.2025.07.030](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clbc.2025.07.030)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Spondin-2 (SPON2) expression is associated with various types of cancer, but its role in breast cancer (BC) remains ambiguous, especially in hormone receptor-positive (HR+)/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (HER2-) BC.

**METHODS:** The expression of SPON2 in HR+/HER2- BC tissues and adjacent tissues was detected using immunohistochemical staining and western blotting. Cell proliferation and migration were assessed via CCK-8 assay, EdU assay, and transwell assay. Animal studies were performed to assess the effect of SPON2 knockdown on tumor growth.

**RESULTS:** Herein, increased expression of SPON2 was found in HR+/HER2- BC, and silencing SPON2 suppressed cell proliferation, clonogenicity, and migration, whereas SPON2 overexpression had the opposite effects. Notably, SPON2 knockdown significantly suppressed tumor growth in a xenograft tumor assay. Mechanistically, a reduction in SPON2 expression inhibited β-catenin activation, whereas its overexpression promoted β-catenin-mediated proliferation and migration.

**CONCLUSION:** These data indicate that SPON2 plays oncogenic roles in HR+/HER2- BC via activating the β-catenin pathway, and may represent a potential therapeutic target for patients diagnosed with HR+/HER2- BC.