---
reference_id: PMID:42125231
title: "Building the evidence to address disparities in type 1 diabetes (BEAD-T1D): methods and design of a study examining barriers and promoters to diabetes device use in families with public insurance."
authors:
- Figg LE
- Medina Peñaranda R
- Garfias Silva D
- Hanes S
- Shaw GM
- Chamberlain LJ
- Naranjo D
- Raymond JK
- Maahs DM
- Hood KK
- Addala A
journal: Frontiers in endocrinology
year: '2026'
doi: 10.3389/fendo.2026.1815131
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:48:46+00:00'
---

# Building the evidence to address disparities in type 1 diabetes (BEAD-T1D): methods and design of a study examining barriers and promoters to diabetes device use in families with public insurance.
**Authors:** Figg LE, Medina Peñaranda R, Garfias Silva D, Hanes S, Shaw GM, Chamberlain LJ, Naranjo D, Raymond JK, Maahs DM, Hood KK, Addala A
**Journal:** Frontiers in endocrinology (2026)
**DOI:** [10.3389/fendo.2026.1815131](https://doi.org/10.3389/fendo.2026.1815131)

## Content

Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) and automated insulin delivery (AID) systems have led to improved outcomes in type 1 diabetes (T1D). Diabetes technology use in minoritized populations is 50% lower than more privileged groups. Tailored, multi-factorial interventions are needed to address disparities and improve technology uptake in minoritized youth with T1D. The Building the Evidence to Address Disparities in Type 1 Diabetes (BEAD-T1D) Study assesses drivers of disparities in CGM and AID use in youth with T1D and public insurance to develop an intervention to increase uptake of diabetes technology. This manuscript describes the rationale, design, and protocols of the study. BEAD-T1D is a prospective, mixed-methods study grounded in the social-ecological model informed by sequential triangulation. Study Aim 1 constructs an evidence base of barriers and promoters to CGM and AID use in youth with T1D and public insurance to formulate and test a pilot intervention to increase device uptake in minoritized populations. Study Aim 2 constructs an evidence base of barriers and promoters to recommending devices to youth with T1D and public insurance to formulate and test a pilot intervention for healthcare providers to increase recommendations of devices. The primary outcome is diabetes technology acceptance analyzed via descriptive statistics and univariate analyses to inform the systematic building of a multivariable model. BEAD-T1D lays the groundwork for future efforts to reduce disparities in the uptake and continued use of diabetes technology in marginalized populations. Interventions effective in increasing the uptake and continued use of diabetes technology in youth with T1D and public insurance are necessary to mitigate disparities.