---
reference_id: PMID:24206122
title: Redox regulation in plant immune function.
authors:
- Frederickson Matika DE
- Loake GJ
journal: "Antioxidants & redox signaling"
year: '2014'
doi: 10.1089/ars.2013.5679
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-02T20:15:22+00:00'
---

# Redox regulation in plant immune function.
**Authors:** Frederickson Matika DE, Loake GJ
**Journal:** Antioxidants & redox signaling (2014)
**DOI:** [10.1089/ars.2013.5679](https://doi.org/10.1089/ars.2013.5679)

## Content

**SIGNIFICANCE:** Production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) occurs rapidly in response to attempted pathogen invasion of potential host plants. Such reduction-oxidation (redox) changes are sensed and transmitted to engage immune function, including the hypersensitive response, a programmed execution of challenged plant cells.

**RECENT ADVANCES:** Pathogen elicitors trigger changes in calcium that are sensed by calmodulin, calmodulin-like proteins, and calcium-dependent protein kinases, which activate ROS and RNS production. The ROS and RNS production is compartmentalized within the cell and occurs through multiple routes. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are engaged upstream and downstream of ROS and nitric oxide (NO) production. NO is increasingly recognized as a key signaling molecule, regulating downstream protein function through S-nitrosylation, the addition of an NO moiety to a reactive cysteine thiol.

**CRITICAL ISSUES:** How multiple sources of ROS and RNS are coordinated is unclear. The putative protein sensors that detect and translate fluxes in ROS and RNS into differential gene expression are obscure. Protein tyrosine nitration following reaction of peroxynitrite with tyrosine residues has been proposed as another signaling mechanism or as a marker leading to protein degradation, but the reversibility remains to be established.

**FUTURE DIRECTIONS:** Research is needed to identify the full spectrum of NO-modified proteins with special emphasis on redox-activated transcription factors and their cognate target genes. A systems approach will be required to uncover the complexities integral to redox regulation of MAPK cascades, transcription factors, and defense genes through the combined effects of calcium, phosphorylation, S-nitrosylation, and protein tyrosine nitration.