---
reference_id: PMID:11677207
title: "Infliximab induces apoptosis in monocytes from patients with chronic active Crohn's disease by using a caspase-dependent pathway."
authors:
- Lügering A
- Schmidt M
- Lügering N
- Pauels HG
- Domschke W
- Kucharzik T
journal: Gastroenterology
year: '2001'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-02T20:15:55+00:00'
---

# Infliximab induces apoptosis in monocytes from patients with chronic active Crohn's disease by using a caspase-dependent pathway.
**Authors:** Lügering A, Schmidt M, Lügering N, Pauels HG, Domschke W, Kucharzik T
**Journal:** Gastroenterology (2001)

## Content

**BACKGROUND & AIMS:** Treatment with a chimeric anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antibody (infliximab) has been shown to be highly efficient for patients with steroid-refractory Crohn's disease (CD). However, the mechanism of action remains largely unknown. As monocytopenia is commonly observed after treatment with infliximab, we investigated the role of infliximab-induced monocyte apoptosis.

**METHODS:** Peripheral blood monocytes from healthy volunteers and patients with chronic active CD (CDAI > 250) were isolated by density gradient centrifugation methods. Apoptosis was determined by annexin V staining DNA-laddering, and transmission electron microscopy. Activation of caspases and mitochondrial release of cytochrome C was determined by immunoblotting. Transcriptional activation of members of the Bcl-2 family have been analyzed by ribonuclease protection assay.

**RESULTS:** Treatment with infliximab at therapeutic concentrations resulted in monocyte apoptosis in patients with chronic active CD in a dose-dependent manner. Infliximab-induced monocyte-apoptosis required the activation of members of the caspase-family since activation of caspase-8, -9, and -3 could be determined. Caspase activation was induced by a CD95/CD95L independent signaling pathway with mitochondrial release of cytochrome C. Cytochrome C release seemed to be triggered by transcriptional activation of Bax and Bak. Monocyte apoptosis in vivo as determined by annexin-V binding and caspase-3 activation could be shown in patients with chronic active CD as soon as 4 hours after treatment with infliximab.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Monocyte apoptosis induced by infliximab may be an important mechanism that could explain the powerful anti-inflammatory properties of infliximab in patients with chronic active CD.