---
reference_id: PMID:33581133
title: Discovery of a highly potent kinase inhibitor capable of overcoming multiple imatinib-resistant ABL mutants for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML).
authors:
- Lu T
- Cao J
- Zou F
- Li X
- Wang A
- Wang W
- Liang H
- Liu Q
- Hu C
- Chen C
- Hu Z
- Wang W
- Li L
- Ge J
- Shen Y
- Ren T
- Liu J
- Xia R
- Liu Q
journal: European journal of pharmacology
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2021.173944
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:01:00+00:00'
---

# Discovery of a highly potent kinase inhibitor capable of overcoming multiple imatinib-resistant ABL mutants for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML).
**Authors:** Lu T, Cao J, Zou F, Li X, Wang A, Wang W, Liang H, Liu Q, Hu C, Chen C, Hu Z, Wang W, Li L, Ge J, Shen Y, Ren T, Liu J, Xia R, Liu Q
**Journal:** European journal of pharmacology (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.ejphar.2021.173944](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejphar.2021.173944)

## Content

As the critical driving force for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), BCR gene fused ABL kinase has been extensively explored as a validated target of drug discovery. Although imatinib has achieved tremendous success as the first-line treatment for CML, the long-term application ultimately leads to resistance, primarily via various acquired mutations occurring in the BCR-ABL kinase. Although dasatinib and nilotinib have been approved as second-line therapies that could overcome some of these mutants, the most prevalent gatekeeper T315I mutant remains unconquered. Here, we report a novel type II kinase inhibitor, CHMFL-48, that potently inhibits the wild-type BCR-ABL (wt) kinase as well as a panel of imatinib-resistant mutants, including T315I, F317L, E255K, Y253F, and M351T. CHMFL-48 displayed great inhibitory activity against ABL wt (IC50: 1 nM, 70-fold better than imatinib) and the ABL T315I mutant (IC50: 0.8 nM, over 10,000-fold better than imatinib) in a biochemical assay and potently blocked the autophosphorylation of BCR-ABL wt and BCR-ABL mutants in a cellular context, which further affected downstream signalling mediators, including signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) and CRK like proto-oncogene (CRKL), and led to the cell cycle progression blockage as well as apoptosis induction. CHMFL-48 also exhibited great anti-leukemic efficacies in vivo in K562 cells and p210-T315I-transformed BaF3 cell-inoculated murine models. This discovery extended the pharmacological diversity of BCR-ABL kinase inhibitors and provided more potential options for anti-CML therapies.