---
reference_id: PMID:18644972
title: Tir8/Sigirr prevents murine lupus by suppressing the immunostimulatory effects of lupus autoantigens.
authors:
- Lech M
- Kulkarni OP
- Pfeiffer S
- Savarese E
- Krug A
- Garlanda C
- Mantovani A
- Anders HJ
journal: The Journal of experimental medicine
year: '2008'
doi: 10.1084/jem.20072646
corrections_in:
- "J Exp Med. 2008 Sep 1;205(9):2179"
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:40:11+00:00'
---

# Tir8/Sigirr prevents murine lupus by suppressing the immunostimulatory effects of lupus autoantigens.
**Authors:** Lech M, Kulkarni OP, Pfeiffer S, Savarese E, Krug A, Garlanda C, Mantovani A, Anders HJ
**Journal:** The Journal of experimental medicine (2008)
**DOI:** [10.1084/jem.20072646](https://doi.org/10.1084/jem.20072646)

## Content

The Sigirr gene (also known as Tir8) encodes for an orphan receptor of the Toll-like receptor (TLR)/interleukin 1 receptor family that inhibits TLR-mediated pathogen recognition in dendritic cells. Here, we show that Sigirr also inhibits the activation of dendritic cells and B cells upon exposure to RNA and DNA lupus autoantigens. To evaluate the functional role of Sigirr in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), we generated Sigirr-deficient C57BL/6-lpr/lpr mice. These mice developed a progressive lymphoproliferative syndrome followed by severe autoimmune lung disease and lupus nephritis within 6 mo of age as compared with the minor abnormalities observed in C57BL/6-lpr/lpr mice. Lack of Sigirr was associated with enhanced activation of dendritic cells and increased expression of multiple proinflammatory and antiapoptotic mediators. In the absence of Sigirr, CD4 T cell numbers were increased and CD4(+)CD25(+) T cell numbers were reduced. Furthermore, lack of Sigirr enhanced the activation and proliferation of B cells, including the production of autoantibodies against multiple nuclear lupus autoantigens. These data identify Sigirr as a novel SLE susceptibility gene in mice.