---
reference_id: PMID:37715850
title: Plant-derived cell-penetrating microprotein α-astratide aM1 targets Akt signaling and alleviates insulin resistance.
authors:
- Dutta B
- Loo S
- Kam A
- Tam JP
journal: "Cellular and molecular life sciences : CMLS"
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1007/s00018-023-04937-y
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:40:06+00:00'
---

# Plant-derived cell-penetrating microprotein α-astratide aM1 targets Akt signaling and alleviates insulin resistance.
**Authors:** Dutta B, Loo S, Kam A, Tam JP
**Journal:** Cellular and molecular life sciences : CMLS (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s00018-023-04937-y](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00018-023-04937-y)

## Content

Insulin-resistant diabetes is a common metabolic disease with serious complications. Treatments directly addressing the underlying molecular mechanisms involving insulin resistance would be desirable. Our laboratory recently identified a proteolytic-resistant cystine-dense microprotein from huáng qí (Astragalus membranaceus) called α-astratide aM1, which shares high sequence homology to leginsulins. Here we show that aM1 is a cell-penetrating insulin mimetic, enters cells by endocytosis, and activates the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway independent of the insulin receptor leading to translocation of glucose transporter GLUT4 to the cell surface to promote glucose uptake. We also showed that aM1 alters gene expression, suppresses lipid synthesis and uptake, and inhibits intracellular lipid accumulation in myotubes and adipocytes. By reducing intracellular lipid accumulation and preventing lipid-induced, PKCθ-mediated degradation of IRS1/2, aM1 restores glucose uptake to overcome insulin resistance. These findings highlight the potential of aM1 as a lead for developing orally bioavailable insulin mimetics to expand options for treating diabetes.