---
reference_id: PMID:27401534
title: Insulin and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling pathway regulate Ribonuclease 7 expression in the human urinary tract.
authors:
- Eichler TE
- Becknell B
- Easterling RS
- Ingraham SE
- Cohen DM
- Schwaderer AL
- Hains DS
- Li B
- Cohen A
- Metheny J
- Tridandapani S
- Spencer JD
journal: Kidney international
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1016/j.kint.2016.04.025
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:39:00+00:00'
---

# Insulin and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling pathway regulate Ribonuclease 7 expression in the human urinary tract.
**Authors:** Eichler TE, Becknell B, Easterling RS, Ingraham SE, Cohen DM, Schwaderer AL, Hains DS, Li B, Cohen A, Metheny J, Tridandapani S, Spencer JD
**Journal:** Kidney international (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.kint.2016.04.025](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.kint.2016.04.025)

## Content

Diabetes mellitus is a systemic disease associated with a deficiency of insulin production or action. Diabetic patients have an increased susceptibility to infection with the urinary tract being the most common site. Recent studies suggest that Ribonuclease 7 (RNase 7) is a potent antimicrobial peptide that plays an important role in protecting the urinary tract from bacterial insult. Because the impact of diabetes on RNase 7 expression and function are unknown, we investigated the effects of insulin on RNase 7 using human urine specimens. The urinary RNase 7 concentrations were measured in healthy control patients and insulin-deficient type 1 diabetics before and after starting insulin therapy. Compared with controls, diabetic patients had suppressed urinary RNase 7 concentrations, which increased with insulin. Using primary human urothelial cells, the mechanisms by which insulin stimulates RNase 7 synthesis were next explored. Insulin induced RNase 7 production via the phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase signaling pathway (PI3K/AKT) to shield urothelial cells from uropathogenic E. coli. In contrast, uropathogenic E. coli suppressed PI3K/AKT activity and RNase 7 production. Thus, insulin and PI3K/AKT signaling are essential for RNase 7 expression and increased infection risks in diabetic patients may be secondary to suppressed RNase 7 production. Our data may provide unique insight into novel urinary tract infection therapeutic strategies in at-risk populations.