---
reference_id: PMID:38532523
title: Comparing the effects of various β-blockers on cardiovascular mortality in breast cancer patients.
authors:
- Tabassum M
- Chikermane SG
- Johnson C
- Abdulkareem NM
- Wang EM
- Johnson ML
- Trivedi MV
journal: "Cardio-oncology (London, England)"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1186/s40959-024-00217-1
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:01:25+00:00'
---

# Comparing the effects of various β-blockers on cardiovascular mortality in breast cancer patients.
**Authors:** Tabassum M, Chikermane SG, Johnson C, Abdulkareem NM, Wang EM, Johnson ML, Trivedi MV
**Journal:** Cardio-oncology (London, England) (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1186/s40959-024-00217-1](https://doi.org/10.1186/s40959-024-00217-1)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Cardiovascular (CV) disease is a leading cause of death in breast cancer (BC) patients due to the increased age and treatments. While individual β-blockers have been investigated to manage CV complications, various β-blockers have not been compared for their effects on CV death in this population. We aimed to compare CV mortality in older BC patients taking one of the commonly used β-blockers.

**METHODS:** This retrospective cohort study was conducted using the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) - Medicare data (2010-2015). Patients of age 66 years or older at BC diagnosis receiving metoprolol, atenolol, or carvedilol monotherapy were included. The competing risk regression model was used to determine the risk of CV mortality in the three β-blocker groups. The multivariable model was adjusted for demographic and clinical covariates. The adjusted hazard ratio (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were reported for the risk of CV mortality.

**RESULTS:** The study cohort included 6,540 patients of which 55% were metoprolol users, 30% were atenolol users, and 15% were carvedilol users. Metoprolol was associated with a 37% reduced risk of CV mortality (P = 0.03) compared to carvedilol after adjusting for the covariates (HR = 0.63; 95% CI 0.41-0.96). No significant difference in the risk of CV mortality between atenolol and carvedilol users was observed (HR = 0.74; 95% CI 0.44-1.22).

**CONCLUSIONS:** Our findings suggest that metoprolol is associated with a reduced risk of CV mortality in BC patients. Future studies are needed to confirm these findings and understand the mechanism of action.