---
reference_id: PMID:21159845
title: Thyroid hormone receptor beta (THRB) is a major target gene for microRNAs deregulated in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC).
authors:
- Jazdzewski K
- Boguslawska J
- Jendrzejewski J
- Liyanarachchi S
- Pachucki J
- Wardyn KA
- Nauman A
- de la Chapelle A
journal: The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism
year: '2011'
doi: 10.1210/jc.2010-1594
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:42:50+00:00'
---

# Thyroid hormone receptor beta (THRB) is a major target gene for microRNAs deregulated in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC).
**Authors:** Jazdzewski K, Boguslawska J, Jendrzejewski J, Liyanarachchi S, Pachucki J, Wardyn KA, Nauman A, de la Chapelle A
**Journal:** The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism (2011)
**DOI:** [10.1210/jc.2010-1594](https://doi.org/10.1210/jc.2010-1594)

## Content

**CONTEXT:** Loss of the thyroid hormone receptor is common in tumors. In mouse models, a truncated THRB gene leads to thyroid cancer. Previously, we observed up-regulation of the expression of eight microRNAs (miRs) in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) tumors.

**OBJECTIVE:** Our objective was to determine whether THRB might be inhibited by miRs up-regulated in PTC.

**DESIGN:** The potential binding of miR to the 3'-untranslated region of THRB was analyzed in silico. Direct inhibition by miRs binding to the cloned 3'-untranslated region of THRB was evaluated using luciferase assays. Inhibition of endogenous THRB and its target genes (DIO1 and APP) was examined in cell lines transfected by pre-miRs. The impact on thyroid hormone response element (TRE) was evaluated in promoter assays. Correlations between the expression of THRB and miRs was evaluated in 13 PTC tumor/normal tissue pairs.

**RESULTS:** THRB contains binding sites for the top seven miRs up-regulated in PTC (P = 0.0000002). Direct interaction with THRB was shown for miR-21 and miR-146a. We observed lower levels of THRB transcripts in cell lines transfected with miR-21, -146a, and -221 (down-regulation of 37-48%; P < 0.0001), but not with miR-181a. THRB protein was suppressed down to 10-28% by each of four miRs. Concomitant expression of DIO1 and APP was affected (down-regulation of 32-66%, P < 0.0034 and up-regulation of 48-57%, P < 0.0002, respectively). All four miRs affected TRE activity in promoter assays. Down-regulation of luciferase occurred after transfection with pTRE-TK-Luc construct and each of four miRs. The analysis of tumor/normal tissue pairs revealed down-regulation of THRB in 11 of 13 pairs (1.3- to 9.1-fold), and up-regulation of miR-21, -146a, -181a, and -221 in almost all pairs.

**CONCLUSIONS:** MiRs up-regulated in PTC tumors directly inhibit the expression of THRB, an important tumor suppressor gene.