---
reference_id: PMID:33606878
title: Immunomodulatory Agents Combat Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis by Improving Antimicrobial Immunity.
authors:
- Rao Muvva J
- Ahmed S
- Rekha RS
- Kalsum S
- Groenheit R
- Schön T
- Agerberth B
- Bergman P
- Brighenti S
journal: The Journal of infectious diseases
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1093/infdis/jiab100
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:19:39+00:00'
---

# Immunomodulatory Agents Combat Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis by Improving Antimicrobial Immunity.
**Authors:** Rao Muvva J, Ahmed S, Rekha RS, Kalsum S, Groenheit R, Schön T, Agerberth B, Bergman P, Brighenti S
**Journal:** The Journal of infectious diseases (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1093/infdis/jiab100](https://doi.org/10.1093/infdis/jiab100)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Multidrug-resistant (MDR) tuberculosis has low treatment success rates, and new treatment strategies are needed. We explored whether treatment with active vitamin D3 (vitD) and phenylbutyrate (PBA) could improve conventional chemotherapy by enhancing immune-mediated eradication of Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

**METHODS:** A clinically relevant model was used consisting of human macrophages infected with M. tuberculosis isolates (n = 15) with different antibiotic resistance profiles. The antimicrobial effect of vitD+PBA, was tested together with rifampicin or isoniazid. Methods included colony-forming units (intracellular bacterial growth), messenger RNA expression analyses (LL-37, β-defensin, nitric oxide synthase, and dual oxidase 2), RNA interference (LL-37-silencing in primary macrophages), and Western blot analysis and confocal microscopy (LL-37 and LC3 protein expression).

**RESULTS:** VitD+PBA inhibited growth of clinical MDR tuberculosis strains in human macrophages and strengthened intracellular growth inhibition of rifampicin and isoniazid via induction of the antimicrobial peptide LL-37 and LC3-dependent autophagy. Gene silencing of LL-37 expression enhanced MDR tuberculosis growth in vitD+PBA-treated macrophages. The combination of vitD+PBA and isoniazid were as effective in reducing intracellular MDR tuberculosis growth as a >125-fold higher dose of isoniazid alone, suggesting potent additive effects of vitD+PBA with isoniazid.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Immunomodulatory agents that trigger multiple immune pathways can strengthen standard MDR tuberculosis treatment and contribute to next-generation individualized treatment options for patients with difficult-to-treat pulmonary tuberculosis.