---
reference_id: PMID:39986536
title: "Effects of senotherapeutics on gut microbiome dysbiosis and intestinal inflammation in Crohn's disease: A pilot study."
authors:
- Sangfuang N
- McCoubrey LE
- Awad A
- Marzorati M
- Ghyselinck J
- Verstrepen L
- Munck J
- Medts J
- Gaisford S
- Basit AW
journal: "Translational research : the journal of laboratory and clinical medicine"
year: '2025'
doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2025.02.004
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:27:02+00:00'
---

# Effects of senotherapeutics on gut microbiome dysbiosis and intestinal inflammation in Crohn's disease: A pilot study.
**Authors:** Sangfuang N, McCoubrey LE, Awad A, Marzorati M, Ghyselinck J, Verstrepen L, Munck J, Medts J, Gaisford S, Basit AW
**Journal:** Translational research : the journal of laboratory and clinical medicine (2025)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.trsl.2025.02.004](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trsl.2025.02.004)

## Content

Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) is characterized by chronic inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract, and is usually accompanied by dysbiosis in the gut microbiome, a factor that contributes to disease progression. Excessive production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) because of gut microbiome dysbiosis-one of the hallmark features of IBD-promotes chronic inflammation and facilitates the transformation of normal cells into senescent cells. Cellular senescence is associated with the development of various chronic and age-related diseases. We hypothesise that senolytic agents, specifically dasatinib (D) and quercetin (Q), could have a beneficial effect on both the gut microbiome and intestinal cells in IBD. The modulatory effects of a combination of D + Q was assessed in the M-SHIME model with faecal microbiota sourced from Crohn's disease patients. D + Q significantly modulated butyrate and lactate levels in the samples from specific patients. In addition, metabolomic analysis showed that D + Q positively impacted the abundance of anti-inflammatory bacteria while also significantly reducing the several species of pathogenic bacteria. Findings from a Caco-2 cell/THP1 co-culture model of IBD demonstrated that D + Q exerted strong immunomodulatory effects on the gut epithelium, evidenced by reduced NF-kB activity, and lower levels of the pro-inflammatory markers TNF-α, CXCL-10, and MCP-1. Furthermore, D + Q induced the secretion of anti-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-6 and IL-10. However, it should be noted that D + Q also led to the secretion of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-8. These findings suggest that D + Q could offer a novel therapeutic approach for advanced IBD management by modulating both the gut microbiome and inflammatory pathways. The results support the potential repurposing of senotherapeutic agents as a strategy for addressing the chronic inflammation central to IBD pathogenesis.