---
reference_id: PMID:29424572
title: Atrial arrhythmias and autonomic dysfunction in rats exposed to chronic intermittent hypoxia.
authors:
- Bober SL
- Ciriello J
- Jones DL
journal: American journal of physiology. Heart and circulatory physiology
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1152/ajpheart.00173.2017
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T20:59:37+00:00'
---

# Atrial arrhythmias and autonomic dysfunction in rats exposed to chronic intermittent hypoxia.
**Authors:** Bober SL, Ciriello J, Jones DL
**Journal:** American journal of physiology. Heart and circulatory physiology (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1152/ajpheart.00173.2017](https://doi.org/10.1152/ajpheart.00173.2017)

## Content

Obstructive sleep apnea, which involves chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH), is a major risk factor for developing atrial fibrillation (AF). Whether or not CIH alone alters cardiac mechanisms to support AF is unknown. This study investigated the effects of CIH on atrial electrophysiology and arrhythmia vulnerability and evaluated the role of autonomics in CIH promotion of AF. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to 8 h/day of CIH or normoxia for 7 days. After exposure, rats were anesthetized for intracardiac electrophysiological experiments. Atrial effective refractory periods (AERPs) and AF inducibility were determined using programmed electrical stimulation and burst pacing in the absence and presence of autonomic receptor agonists and antagonists. Western blot analysis measured atrial protein expression of muscarinic M2, M3, and β1-adrenergic receptors. Compared with normoxia-exposed control rats, CIH-exposed rats had enhanced AF vulnerability using both programmed electrical stimulation and burst pacing, accompanied by greater AERP responses to carbachol and propranolol, lesser responses to isoproterenol, and higher atrial M2 receptor protein levels. Enhanced atrial vulnerability was accentuated by carbachol and abolished by atropine, indicating that the AF-promoting effects of CIH depended principally on parasympathetic activation. Enhancement of atrial vulnerability and AERP shortening with cholinergic agonists in CIH-exposed rats is consistent with sensitivity to parasympathetic activation. Higher responses to adrenergic receptor blockade in CIH-exposed rats is consistent with sympathetic potentiation. These findings implicate CIH as an important mediator of enhanced AF susceptibility in obstructive sleep apnea and provide novel insights into the underlying mechanisms. NEW & NOTEWORTHY Our study demonstrates, for the first time, that chronic intermittent hypoxia alone enhances vulnerability to atrial arrhythmia induction, which depends principally on parasympathetic activation. Enhanced atrial vulnerability was accompanied by heightened electrophysiological responses of the atrial myocardium to carbachol and isoproterenol, dampened responses to propranolol, and increased atrial M2 receptor protein levels.