---
reference_id: PMID:23029138
title: Valproate alters dopamine signaling in association with induction of Par-4 protein expression.
authors:
- Lee S
- Jeong J
- Park YU
- Kwak Y
- Lee SA
- Lee H
- Son H
- Park SK
journal: PloS one
year: '2012'
doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045618
corrections_in:
- "PLoS One. 2014;9(1). doi:10.1371/annotation/49a3f8f0-b994-4d66-9f2e-65ef4929965b"
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:20:41+00:00'
---

# Valproate alters dopamine signaling in association with induction of Par-4 protein expression.
**Authors:** Lee S, Jeong J, Park YU, Kwak Y, Lee SA, Lee H, Son H, Park SK
**Journal:** PloS one (2012)
**DOI:** [10.1371/journal.pone.0045618](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0045618)

## Content

Chromatin remodeling through histone modifications has emerged as a key mechanism in the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders. Valproate (VPA), a first-line medication for bipolar disorder, is known to have histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor activity, but the relationship between its efficacy as a mood stabilizer and HDAC inhibitory activity is unclear. Here we provide evidence that prostate apoptosis response-4 (Par-4), an intracellular binding partner of dopamine D2 receptors (DRD2), plays a role in mediating the effectiveness of VPA. We found that chronic VPA treatment enhanced the expression of Par-4 in cultured neurons and adult mouse brains. This Par-4 induction phenomenon occurred at the transcriptional level and was correlated with an increase in histone H3 and H4 acetylation of the Par-4 promoter regions. Furthermore, chronic VPA treatment potentiated the suppression of the cAMP signaling cascade upon dopamine stimulation, which was blocked by sulpiride treatment. These results indicate that VPA potentiates DRD2 activity by enhancing Par-4 expression via a chromatin remodeling mechanism.