---
reference_id: PMID:36028305
title: Donepezil inhibits neuromuscular junctional acetylcholinesterase and enhances synaptic transmission and function in isolated skeletal muscle.
authors:
- Redman RR
- Mackenzie H
- Dissanayake KN
- Eddleston M
- Ribchester RR
journal: British journal of pharmacology
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1111/bph.15940
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:27:28+00:00'
---

# Donepezil inhibits neuromuscular junctional acetylcholinesterase and enhances synaptic transmission and function in isolated skeletal muscle.
**Authors:** Redman RR, Mackenzie H, Dissanayake KN, Eddleston M, Ribchester RR
**Journal:** British journal of pharmacology (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1111/bph.15940](https://doi.org/10.1111/bph.15940)

## Content

**BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE:** Donepezil, a piperidine inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) prescribed for treatment of Alzheimer's disease, has adverse neuromuscular effects in humans, including requirement for higher concentrations of non-depolarising neuromuscular blockers during surgery. Here, we examined the effects of donepezil on synaptic transmission at neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) in isolated nerve-muscle preparations from mice.

**EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH:** We measured effects of therapeutic concentrations of donepezil (10 nM to 1 μM) on AChE enzymic activity, muscle force responses to repetitive stimulation, and spontaneous and evoked endplate potentials (EPPs) recorded intracellularly from flexor digitorum brevis muscles from CD01 or C57BlWldS mice.

**KEY RESULTS:** Donepezil inhibited muscle AChE with an approximate IC50 of 30 nM. Tetanic stimulation in sub-micromolar concentrations of donepezil prolonged post-tetanic muscle contractions. Preliminary Fluo4-imaging indicated an association of these contractions with an increase and slow decay of intracellular Ca2+ transients at motor endplates. Donepezil prolonged spontaneous miniature EPP (MEPP) decay time constants by about 65% and extended evoked EPP duration almost threefold. The mean frequency of spontaneous MEPPs was unaffected but the incidence of 'giant' MEPPs (gMEPPs), some exceeding 10 mV in amplitude, was increased. Neither mean MEPP amplitude (excluding gMEPPs), mean EPP amplitude, quantal content or synaptic depression during repetitive stimulation were significantly altered by concentrations of donepezil up to 1 μM.

**CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS:** Adverse neuromuscular signs associated with donepezil therapy, including relative insensitivity to neuromuscular blockers, are probably due to inhibition of AChE at NMJs, prolonging the action of ACh on postsynaptic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors but without substantively impairing evoked ACh release.