---
reference_id: PMID:2909524
title: "A new folate antimetabolite, 5,10-dideaza-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrofolate is a potent inhibitor of de novo purine synthesis."
authors:
- Beardsley GP
- Moroson BA
- Taylor EC
- Moran RG
journal: The Journal of biological chemistry
year: '1989'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:18:15+00:00'
---

# A new folate antimetabolite, 5,10-dideaza-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrofolate is a potent inhibitor of de novo purine synthesis.
**Authors:** Beardsley GP, Moroson BA, Taylor EC, Moran RG
**Journal:** The Journal of biological chemistry (1989)

## Content

5,10-Dideazatetrahydrofolate (DDATHF) is a new antimetabolite designed as an inhibitor of folate metabolism at sites other than dihydrofolate reductase. DDATHF was found to inhibit the growth of L1210 and CCRF-CEM cells in culture at concentrations in the range of 10-30 nM. The inhibitory effect of DDATHF on the growth of L1210 and CCRF-CEM cells was reversed by either hypoxanthine or aminoimidazole carboxamide. Growth inhibition by DDATHF was prevented by addition of both thymidine and hypoxanthine, but not by thymidine alone. 5-Formyltetrahydrofolate reversed the effects of DDATHF in a dose-dependent manner. DDATHF had no appreciable inhibitory activity against either dihydrofolate reductase or thymidylate synthase in vitro, but was found to be an excellent substrate for folylpolyglutamate synthetase. DDATHF had little or no effect on incorporation of either deoxyuridine or thymidine into DNA, in distinct contrast to the effects of the classical dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor, methotrexate. DDATHF was found to deplete cellular ATP and GTP over the same concentrations as those inhibitory to leukemic cell growth, suggesting that the locus of DDATHF action was in the de novo purine biosynthesis pathway. The synthesis of formylglycinamide ribonucleotide in intact L1210 cells was inhibited by DDATHF with the same concentration dependence as inhibition of growth. This suggested that DDATHF inhibited glycinamide ribonucleotide transformylase, the first folate-dependent enzyme of de novo purine synthesis. DDATHF is a potent folate analog which suppresses purine synthesis through direct or indirect inhibition of glycinamide ribonucleotide transformylase.