---
reference_id: PMID:7685386
title: Acute uptake inhibition increases extracellular serotonin in the rat forebrain.
authors:
- Rutter JJ
- Auerbach SB
journal: The Journal of pharmacology and experimental therapeutics
year: '1993'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-02T20:15:35+00:00'
---

# Acute uptake inhibition increases extracellular serotonin in the rat forebrain.
**Authors:** Rutter JJ, Auerbach SB
**Journal:** The Journal of pharmacology and experimental therapeutics (1993)

## Content

The effect of acute uptake inhibition on serotonin (5-HT) in the rat central nervous system was monitored by using in vivo dialysis. Peripheral administration of the selective 5-HT uptake blocker, fluoxetine, caused a dose-dependent increase in extracellular 5-HT in both the diencephalon and the striatum. Administration of fluoxetine or sertraline, another selective 5-HT uptake inhibitor, caused a prolonged (24 hr) increase in 5-HT and decrease in 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. In addition, fluoxetine and sertraline attenuated the 5-HT releasing effect of fenfluramine administered 24 hr later. Local infusion of fluoxetine into the diencephalon caused an increase in 5-HT that was twice as large as the effect of peripheral injection. Peripheral fluoxetine, by enhancing extracellular 5-HT in the raphe, probably resulted in activation of somatodendritic autoreceptors and inhibition of 5-HT neuronal discharge. Thus, the increase in 5-HT in the diencephalon after peripheral fluoxetine presumably reflected a balance between decreased release and inhibition of reuptake. In support of this, after first infusing fluoxetine into the diencephalon to maximally block reuptake, peripheral injection of the uptake inhibitor caused a decrease in 5-HT.