---
reference_id: PMID:28914344
title: Influence of genetic co-factors on the population pharmacokinetic model for clopidogrel and its active thiol metabolite.
authors:
- Danielak D
- Karaźniewicz-Łada M
- Komosa A
- Burchardt P
- Lesiak M
- Kruszyna Ł
- Graczyk-Szuster A
- Główka F
journal: European journal of clinical pharmacology
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1007/s00228-017-2334-z
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T20:59:41+00:00'
---

# Influence of genetic co-factors on the population pharmacokinetic model for clopidogrel and its active thiol metabolite.
**Authors:** Danielak D, Karaźniewicz-Łada M, Komosa A, Burchardt P, Lesiak M, Kruszyna Ł, Graczyk-Szuster A, Główka F
**Journal:** European journal of clinical pharmacology (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s00228-017-2334-z](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00228-017-2334-z)

## Content

**PURPOSE:** A high interindividual variability is observed in the pharmacokinetics of clopidogrel, a widely used antiplatelet drug. In the present study, a joint parent-metabolite population pharmacokinetic model was developed to adequately describe observed concentrations of clopidogrel and its active thiol metabolite (H4).

**METHODS:** The study included 63 patients undergoing elective coronarography or percutaneous coronary intervention. The population pharmacokinetic model was developed in the NONMEM 7.3 software, and first-order conditional estimation method with interaction was applied. Also, the influence of covariates was evaluated (age, weight, body mass index (BMI), obesity defined as BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2, sex, diabetes mellitus, co-administration of PPI or statins, presence of CYP2C19*2, CYP2C19*17, CYP3A4*1G alleles, and ABCB1 3435 TT genotype).

**RESULTS:** It was found that the only significant covariate was the presence of CYP2C19*2 allele, which had an impact on lower conversion of clopidogrel to H4. As a result, predicted area under the time-concentration curve values was lower in carriers of this allele, with median 5.94 ng h/ml (interquartile range 3.92-12.51 [ng∙h/ml]) vs. 12.70 ng h/ml in non-carriers (interquartile range, 7.00-19.39 [ng∙h/ml]), respectively (p = 0.004).

**CONCLUSIONS:** Developed model predicts that the only significant covariate influencing the observed concentrations and therefore the exposure to the active H4 metabolite is the presence of CYP2C19*2 allele.