---
reference_id: PMID:35090949
title: "Preventive treatment with fish oil facilitates the antidepressant-like effect of antidepressant drugs in type-1 diabetes mellitus rats: Implication of serotonergic system."
authors:
- Paula Farias Waltrick A
- Henrique Bernardo de Lima Silva A
- Cristina de Carvalho M
- Aparecida Comotti de Oliveira B
- Naliwaiko K
- Maria da Cunha J
- Menezes Zanoveli J
journal: Neuroscience letters
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2022.136477
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:19:44+00:00'
---

# Preventive treatment with fish oil facilitates the antidepressant-like effect of antidepressant drugs in type-1 diabetes mellitus rats: Implication of serotonergic system.
**Authors:** Paula Farias Waltrick A, Henrique Bernardo de Lima Silva A, Cristina de Carvalho M, Aparecida Comotti de Oliveira B, Naliwaiko K, Maria da Cunha J, Menezes Zanoveli J
**Journal:** Neuroscience letters (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.neulet.2022.136477](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neulet.2022.136477)

## Content

Treating depression associated with type-1 diabetesmellitus(T1DM) is a major clinical challenge. Fish oil (FO), composed mostly of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), has been pointed out as quite promising for the treatment of depression given its neuroprotective property. Although DHA and EPA exert several physiological actions, DHA is known to play a critical role in postnatal brain development. This study aimed to investigate the effect of preventive treatment with FO (with more DHA in the composition) alone or associated with antidepressant drugs on depression-like behaviors and brain monoamines levels of juvenile induced-T1DM rats. Thus, prepubescent rats were submitted to a prolonged treatment with vehicle (VEH) or FO (50% of DHA and 20% EPA) starting 4 weeks before the induction of experimental T1DM (on day 28) by streptozotocin. When combined, the treatment with vehicle, fluoxetine (FLX, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) or imipramine (IMI, a tricyclic antidepressant) started at week 6 (day 42) and lasted for 2 weeks (until day 56). The behavioral tests were conducted on days 55 and 56, followed by hippocampal and prefrontal cortex dissection for neurochemical analyses. Our results showed that induced-T1DM rats pretreated with FO showed a significant increase of EPA and DHA in plasma, indicative of an increase in the systemic availability of these acids. As previously observed, induced-T1DM rats presented increased immobility and decreased swimming and climbing frequencies in the modified forced swimming test, indicative of depressive-like behavior. Only the combined treatment - FO plus antidepressants (FLX or IMI - both in the highest dose) - was able to induce a significant improvement of depressive-like behaviors. Here, it is noteworthy that swimming behavior has been associated with an increase in serotonergic neurotransmission. Interestingly, our data showed that the combined treatment (FO + antidepressants - including the ineffective dose of FLX) was able to increase the swimming of animals more significantly compared to animals not pretreated with FO. In addition, confirming these assumptions, the decreased 5-HT levels in the hippocampus from induced-T1DM rats were increased after treatment with FLX (highest dose) or IMI (both doses), being this increase more pronounced in animal pretreated with FO. Intriguingly, in these animals pretreated with FO, the ineffective dose of FLX in association with FO was able to increase the levels of 5-HT. The decreased hippocampal levels of noradrenaline were increased only after IMI treatment, not being influenced by FO pretreatment. In conclusion, ours results pointed out that the choice of the DHA/EPA ratio may be an important factor to be considered for the FO antidepressant-like effectper se,but the FO treatment in this composition associated with the antidepressant drugs - especially that ones that increase preferentially the availability of 5-HT -, may represent a better alternative of treatment to individuals with T1DM-associated depression.