---
reference_id: PMID:27233214
title: Inhibitory effect of extracellular purine nucleotide and nucleoside concentrations on T cell proliferation.
authors:
- Weiler M
- Schmetzer H
- Braeu M
- Buhmann R
journal: Experimental cell research
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2016.05.017
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:41:13+00:00'
---

# Inhibitory effect of extracellular purine nucleotide and nucleoside concentrations on T cell proliferation.
**Authors:** Weiler M, Schmetzer H, Braeu M, Buhmann R
**Journal:** Experimental cell research (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.yexcr.2016.05.017](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.yexcr.2016.05.017)

## Content

The release of nucleic acids and derivatives after tissue-injury may affect cellular immune-response. We studied the impact of extracellular ribo-, desoxyribonucleotides and nucleosides on T-cell immunity. Peripheral-blood-mononuclear-cells (PBMCs) or isolated CD3+T-cells obtained from 6 healthy donors were stimulated via CD3/CD28 Dynabeads or dendritic cells (DCs) in the presence or absence of pyrimidine-, purine-nucleotides and -nucleosides (range 2-200µM). Addition of deoxy-, guanosine-triphosphate (dGTP, GTP) and guanosine resulted concentration dependent in a complete, adenosine-triphosphate (ATP) in a partial inhibition of the induced T-cell-proliferation. Deoxyadenosine-triphosphate (dATP), adenosine and the pyrimidine-ribo- and -deoxyribonucleotides displayed no inhibitory capacity. Inhibitory effects of dGTP and GTP, but not of guanosine and ATP were culture-media-dependent and could be almost abrogated by use of the serum-free lymphocyte-culture-media X-Vivo15 instead of RPMI1640 with standard-supplementation. In contrast to RPMI1640, X-Vivo15 resulted in a significant down-regulation of the cell-surface-located ectonucleotidases CD39 (Ecto-Apyrase) and CD73 (Ecto-5'-Nucleotidase), critical for the extracellular nucleotides-hydrolysis to nucleosides, explaining the loss of inhibition mediated by dGTP and GTP, but not Guanosine. In line with previous findings ATP was found to exert immunosuppressive effects on T-cell-proliferation. Purine-nucleotides, dGTP and GTP displayed a higher inhibitory capacity, but seem to be strictly dependent on the microenvironmental conditions modulating the responsiveness of the respective T-lymphocytes. Further evaluation of experimental and respective clinical settings should anticipate these findings.