---
reference_id: PMID:29791203
title: Short-term thermoneutral housing alters glucose metabolism and markers of adipose tissue browning in response to a high-fat diet in lean mice.
authors:
- Clayton ZS
- McCurdy CE
journal: "American journal of physiology. Regulatory, integrative and comparative physiology"
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1152/ajpregu.00364.2017
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:44:37+00:00'
---

# Short-term thermoneutral housing alters glucose metabolism and markers of adipose tissue browning in response to a high-fat diet in lean mice.
**Authors:** Clayton ZS, McCurdy CE
**Journal:** American journal of physiology. Regulatory, integrative and comparative physiology (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1152/ajpregu.00364.2017](https://doi.org/10.1152/ajpregu.00364.2017)

## Content

Systemic insulin resistance and glucose intolerance occur with as little as 3 days of a high-fat diet (HFD) in mice and humans; the mechanisms that initiate acute insulin resistance are unknown. Most laboratories house mice at 22°C, which is below their thermoneutral temperature (~30°C). Cold stress has been shown to increase white adipose tissue (WAT) browning, alter lipid trafficking, and impair immune function, whereas energy intake and expenditure decrease with increasing ambient temperature; importantly, dysregulation of these parameters has been strongly linked to obesity-induced insulin resistance. Therefore, we compared acute changes in glucose metabolism and the metabolic phenotype in lean mice in response to a control diet or HFD housed at standard vivarium (22°C) and thermoneutral (30°C) temperatures. Glucose intolerance occurred following 1 or 5 days of HFD and was independent of housing temperature or adiposity; however, the reduction in tissue-specific glucose clearance with HFD diverged by temperature with reduced brown adipose tissue (BAT) glucose uptake at 22°C but reduced soleus glucose uptake at 30°C. Fasting glucose, food intake, and energy expenditure were significantly lower at 30°C, independent of diet. Additionally, markers of browning in both BAT and inguinal subcutaneous WAT, but not perigonadal epididymal WAT, decreased at 30°C. Together, we find housing temperature has a significant impact on the cellular pathways that regulate glucose tolerance in response to an acute HFD exposure. Thus, even short-term changes in housing temperature should be highly considered in interpretation of metabolic studies in mice.