---
reference_id: PMID:28300427
title: Annexin A1 as a target for managing murine pristane-induced systemic lupus erythematosus.
authors:
- Mihaylova N
- Bradyanova S
- Chipinski P
- Herbáth M
- Chausheva S
- Kyurkchiev D
- Prechl J
- Tchorbanov AI
journal: Autoimmunity
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1080/08916934.2017.1300884
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:40:11+00:00'
---

# Annexin A1 as a target for managing murine pristane-induced systemic lupus erythematosus.
**Authors:** Mihaylova N, Bradyanova S, Chipinski P, Herbáth M, Chausheva S, Kyurkchiev D, Prechl J, Tchorbanov AI
**Journal:** Autoimmunity (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1080/08916934.2017.1300884](https://doi.org/10.1080/08916934.2017.1300884)

## Content

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a polygenic pathological disorder which involves multiple organs. Self-specific B cells play a main role in the lupus pathogenesis by generating autoantibodies as well as by serving as important autoantigen-presenting cells. Autoreactive T lymphocytes, on the other hand, are responsible for B cell activation and proliferation, and cytokine production. Therefore, both factors promote the idea that a down-modulation of activated self-reactive T and B cells involved in the pathogenic immune response is a reasonable approach for SLE therapy. Annexin A1 (ANX A1) is expressed by many cell types and binds to phospholipids in a Ca2+ dependent manner. Abnormal expression of ANX A1 was found on activated B and T cells in both murine and human autoimmunity, suggesting its potential role as a therapeutic target. While its role on T lymphocytes is through formyl peptide receptor-like molecules (FPRL), and the formed ANX A1/FPRL pathway modulates T cell receptor signalling, there is still no fool-proof data available for the role of ANX A1 in B cells. We employed a lupus model of Balb/c mice with pristane-induced SLE which very closely resembles human lupus. In the present study, we investigated the possibility to modulate the autoimmune response in a pristane-induced mouse model of SLE using an anti- ANX A1 antibody. Administration of this monoclonal antibody resulted in the inhibition of T-cell activation and proliferation, suppression of IgG anti-dsDNA antibody-secreting plasma cells and of proteinuria, decreased disease activity and prolonged survival compared to control group.