---
reference_id: PMID:37778516
title: Esculin ameliorates obesity-induced insulin resistance by improving adipose tissue remodeling and activating the IRS1/PI3K/AKT/GLUT4 pathway.
authors:
- Yang YY
- Qi JJ
- Jiang SY
- Ye L
journal: Journal of ethnopharmacology
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2023.117251
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:40:05+00:00'
---

# Esculin ameliorates obesity-induced insulin resistance by improving adipose tissue remodeling and activating the IRS1/PI3K/AKT/GLUT4 pathway.
**Authors:** Yang YY, Qi JJ, Jiang SY, Ye L
**Journal:** Journal of ethnopharmacology (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jep.2023.117251](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jep.2023.117251)

## Content

**ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE:** Cortex fraxini (also known as qinpi)-the bark of Fraxinus rhynchophylla Hance (Oleaceae)-is widely used as a Chinese traditional medicinal for its anti-inflammatory and anti-hyperuricemic activities.

**AIM OF THE STUDY:** Obesity-induced insulin resistance (IR) is driving the rising incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus and is related to pathological adipose tissue remodeling. Esculin, a major active component of Cortex fraxini, has anti-diabetic effects. However, whether esculin improves obesity-induced IR by regulating adipose tissue remodeling is unclear. The aims of the present study were to assess the effects of esculin on obesity-induced IR and to explore the underlying mechanisms.

**MATERIALS AND METHODS:** Obese IR C57BL/6J mice were treated with esculin (40 or 80 mg/kg/day) for 4 weeks. Oral glucose tolerance tests were used to assess insulin sensitivity. Histological analyses were performed to analyze the number and size distribution of adipocytes. Glucose uptake was assessed using 2-NBDG.

**RESULTS:** Esculin had no effect on body weight gain but reduced fasting blood glucose, improved oral glucose tolerance, and increased insulin sensitivity. Esculin reduced adipocyte size and the expression levels of collagen 4A1 and tumor necrosis factor α and increased the number of adipocytes and the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor A. Esculin promoted the differentiation of 3T3-L1 cells and upregulated the mRNA expression of CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, activated the insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1)/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (AKT) signaling pathway, and enhanced the translocation of glucose transporter type 4 (GLUT4) and glucose uptake in adipocytes treated with palmitic acid.

**CONCLUSIONS:** These data suggest that esculin increases insulin sensitivity by improving adipose tissue remodeling and activating the IRS1/PI3K/AKT/GLUT4 pathway.