---
reference_id: PMID:27050377
title: ATG9A loss confers resistance to trastuzumab via c-Cbl mediated Her2 degradation.
authors:
- Nunes J
- Zhang H
- Angelopoulos N
- Chhetri J
- Osipo C
- Grothey A
- Stebbing J
- Giamas G
journal: Oncotarget
year: '2016'
doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.8504
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:19:18+00:00'
---

# ATG9A loss confers resistance to trastuzumab via c-Cbl mediated Her2 degradation.
**Authors:** Nunes J, Zhang H, Angelopoulos N, Chhetri J, Osipo C, Grothey A, Stebbing J, Giamas G
**Journal:** Oncotarget (2016)
**DOI:** [10.18632/oncotarget.8504](https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.8504)

## Content

Acquired or de novo resistance to trastuzumab remains a barrier to patient survival and mechanisms underlying this still remain unclear. Using stable isotope labelling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based quantitative proteomics to compare proteome profiles between trastuzumab sensitive/resistant cells, we identified autophagy related protein 9A (ATG9A) as a down-regulated protein in trastuzumab resistant cells (BT474-TR). Interestingly, ATG9A ectopic expression markedly decreased the proliferative ability of BT474-TR cells but not that of the parental line (BT474). This was accompanied by a reduction of Her2 protein levels and AKT phosphorylation (S473), as well as a decrease in Her2 stability, which was also observed in JIMT1 and MDA-453, naturally trastuzumab-resistant cells. In addition, ATG9A indirectly promoted c-Cbl recruitment to Her2 on T1112, a known c-Cbl docking site, leading to increased K63 Her2 polyubiquitination. Whereas silencing c-Cbl abrogated ATG9A repressive effects on Her2 and downstream PI3K/AKT signaling, its depletion restored BT474-TR proliferative rate. Taken together, our findings show for this first time that ATG9A loss in trastuzumab resistant cells allowed Her2 to escape from lysosomal targeted degradation through K63 poly-ubiquitination via c-Cbl. This study identifies ATG9A as a potentially druggable target to overcome resistance to anti-Her2 blockade.