---
reference_id: PMID:20136356
title: Functional polymorphisms and methotrexate treatment outcome in recent-onset rheumatoid arthritis.
authors:
- Kooloos WM
- Wessels JA
- van der Straaten T
- Allaart CF
- Huizinga TW
- Guchelaar HJ
journal: Pharmacogenomics
year: '2010'
doi: 10.2217/pgs.09.139
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:26:28+00:00'
---

# Functional polymorphisms and methotrexate treatment outcome in recent-onset rheumatoid arthritis.
**Authors:** Kooloos WM, Wessels JA, van der Straaten T, Allaart CF, Huizinga TW, Guchelaar HJ
**Journal:** Pharmacogenomics (2010)
**DOI:** [10.2217/pgs.09.139](https://doi.org/10.2217/pgs.09.139)

## Content

**AIMS:** Clinical response to methotrexate (MTX) treatment differs among rheumatoid arthritis patients. Genetic variation can partly account for this phenomenon. In this study, functional polymorphisms in genes related to the mechanism of action of MTX or immunopathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis were studied for association with treatment outcome in a Dutch cohort of patients with early rheumatoid arthritis. Furthermore, tests for replication of previous research on these genetic variants were performed according to reported end points.

**MATERIALS & METHODS:** Seven polymorphisms in seven genes were analyzed in 205 genotyped patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. All patients received standardized MTX treatment (< or =25 mg per week orally) combined with folic acid. MTX treatment outcome was evaluated by disease activity score criteria and adverse drug events. The following genetic variants were analyzed and correlated: ABCB1 3435C>T, ITPA IVS2 +21A>C, HLA-G (-14 bp >+14 bp), TGFB1 +869T>C and TLR4 +896A>G. In case of significant differences, regression analyses were applied. Since carriers of the minor alleles of the SNPs DHFR 829C>T and IMPDH2 +787C>T were not observed, no statistical analyses could be performed.

**RESULTS:** No significant associations or replications of these genetic variants with MTX efficacy were demonstrated. Regarding toxicity, patients carrying the ABCB1 3435T-allele and TLR4 +896G-allele were 2.5-times more likely to develop adverse drug events at 6 months (odds ratio: 2.6; 95% CI: 1.1-6.2, and odds ratio: 2.5; 95% CI: 1.1-6.1, respectively). Additionally, this chance increased almost fourfold in patients with the two unfavorable genotypes (odds ratio: 3.9; 95% CI: 1.5-10.3). However, none of these associations remained significant after correction for multiple testing (p < 0.004).

**CONCLUSION:** Our data indicate that MTX toxicity was potentially associated with ABCB1 3435C>T and TLR4 +896A>G. However, after correction, none of these associations remained significant. Furthermore, no significant associations or replications of these functional variants with efficacy were found.