---
reference_id: PMID:28844856
title: RIP3 AND pMLKL promote necroptosis-induced inflammation and alter membrane permeability in intestinal epithelial cells.
authors:
- Negroni A
- Colantoni E
- Pierdomenico M
- Palone F
- Costanzo M
- Oliva S
- Tiberti A
- Cucchiara S
- Stronati L
journal: "Digestive and liver disease : official journal of the Italian Society of Gastroenterology and the Italian Association for the Study of the Liver"
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2017.08.017
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:28:17+00:00'
---

# RIP3 AND pMLKL promote necroptosis-induced inflammation and alter membrane permeability in intestinal epithelial cells.
**Authors:** Negroni A, Colantoni E, Pierdomenico M, Palone F, Costanzo M, Oliva S, Tiberti A, Cucchiara S, Stronati L
**Journal:** Digestive and liver disease : official journal of the Italian Society of Gastroenterology and the Italian Association for the Study of the Liver (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.dld.2017.08.017](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dld.2017.08.017)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Necroptosis is an inflammatory form of programmed cell death requiring receptor-interacting protein kinase 3 (RIP3) and mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein (MLKL).

**AIMS:** The aim of this study is to examine in depth in vitro and ex vivo the contribution of necroptosis to intestinal inflammation.

**METHODS:** In vitro: we used an intestinal cell line, HCT116RIP3, produced in our laboratory and overexpressing RIP3. Ex vivo: intestinal mucosal biopsies were taken from patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) (20 with Crohn's disease; 20 with ulcerative colitis) and from 20 controls.

**RESULTS:** RIP3-induced necroptosis triggers MLKL activation, increases cytokine/alarmin expression (IL-8, IL-1β, IL-33, HMGB1), NF-kBp65 translocation and NALP3 inflammasome assembly. It also affects membrane permeability by altering cell-cell junctional proteins (E-cadherin, Occludin, Zonulin-1). Targeting necroptosis through Necrostatin-1 significantly reduces intestinal inflammation in vitro and in cultured intestinal explants from IBD.

**CONCLUSION:** We show for the first time in vitro and ex vivo that RIP3-driven necroptosis seriously affects intestinal inflammation by increasing pMLKL, activating different cytokines and alarmins, and altering epithelial permeability. The inhibition of necroptosis causes a significant decrease of all these effects. These data strongly support the view that targeting necroptosis may represent a promising new option for the treatment of inflammatory enteropathies.