---
reference_id: PMID:29653770
title: A Comparative Study of Carvedilol Versus Metoprolol Initiation and 1-Year Mortality Among Individuals Receiving Maintenance Hemodialysis.
authors:
- Assimon MM
- Brookhart MA
- Fine JP
- Heiss G
- Layton JB
- Flythe JE
journal: "American journal of kidney diseases : the official journal of the National Kidney Foundation"
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2018.02.350
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T20:59:36+00:00'
---

# A Comparative Study of Carvedilol Versus Metoprolol Initiation and 1-Year Mortality Among Individuals Receiving Maintenance Hemodialysis.
**Authors:** Assimon MM, Brookhart MA, Fine JP, Heiss G, Layton JB, Flythe JE
**Journal:** American journal of kidney diseases : the official journal of the National Kidney Foundation (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1053/j.ajkd.2018.02.350](https://doi.org/10.1053/j.ajkd.2018.02.350)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Carvedilol and metoprolol are the β-blockers most commonly prescribed to US hemodialysis patients, accounting for ∼80% of β-blocker prescriptions. Despite well-established pharmacologic and pharmacokinetic differences between the 2 medications, little is known about their relative safety and efficacy in the hemodialysis population.

**STUDY DESIGN:** A retrospective cohort study using a new-user design.

**SETTING & PARTICIPANTS:** Medicare-enrolled hemodialysis patients treated at a large US dialysis organization who initiated carvedilol or metoprolol therapy from January 1, 2007, through December 30, 2012.

**PREDICTOR:** Carvedilol versus metoprolol initiation.

**OUTCOMES:** All-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, and intradialytic hypotension (systolic blood pressure decrease ≥ 20mmHg during hemodialysis plus intradialytic saline solution administration) during a 1-year follow-up period.

**MEASUREMENTS:** Survival models were used to estimate HRs and 95% CIs in mortality analyses. Poisson regression was used to estimate incidence rate ratios (IRRs) and 95% CIs in intradialytic hypotension analyses. Inverse probability of treatment weighting was used to adjust for several demographic, clinical, laboratory, and dialysis treatment covariates in all analyses.

**RESULTS:** 27,064 individuals receiving maintenance hemodialysis were included: 9,558 (35.3%) carvedilol initiators and 17,506 (64.7%) metoprolol initiators. Carvedilol (vs metoprolol) initiation was associated with greater all-cause (adjusted HR, 1.08; 95% CI, 1.02-1.16) and cardiovascular mortality (adjusted HR, 1.18; 95% CI, 1.08-1.29). In subgroup analyses, similar associations were observed among patients with hypertension, atrial fibrillation, heart failure, and a recent myocardial infarction, the main cardiovascular indications for β-blocker therapy. During follow-up, carvedilol (vs metoprolol) initiators had a higher rate of intradialytic hypotension (adjusted IRR, 1.10; 95% CI, 1.09-1.11).

**LIMITATIONS:** Residual confounding may exist.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Relative to metoprolol initiation, carvedilol initiation was associated with higher 1-year all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. One potential mechanism for these findings may be the increased occurrence of intradialytic hypotension after carvedilol (vs metoprolol) initiation.