---
reference_id: PMID:40133809
title: Involvement of microRNAs-449/FASN axis in response to trastuzumab therapy in HER2-positive breast cancer.
authors:
- Lameirinhas A
- Torres-Ruiz S
- Garrido-Cano I
- Hernando C
- Martínez MT
- Rovira A
- Albanell J
- Zazo S
- Rojo F
- Bermejo B
- Lluch A
- Cejalvo JM
- Tormo E
- Eroles P
journal: "Molecular medicine (Cambridge, Mass.)"
year: '2025'
doi: 10.1186/s10020-025-01163-z
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:20:43+00:00'
---

# Involvement of microRNAs-449/FASN axis in response to trastuzumab therapy in HER2-positive breast cancer.
**Authors:** Lameirinhas A, Torres-Ruiz S, Garrido-Cano I, Hernando C, Martínez MT, Rovira A, Albanell J, Zazo S, Rojo F, Bermejo B, Lluch A, Cejalvo JM, Tormo E, Eroles P
**Journal:** Molecular medicine (Cambridge, Mass.) (2025)
**DOI:** [10.1186/s10020-025-01163-z](https://doi.org/10.1186/s10020-025-01163-z)

## Content

The anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody trastuzumab and new derivative formulations are the standard treatment for HER2-positive breast cancer. However, after 1 to 5 years of treatment, some patients acquire resistance to therapy, leading to relapse. The microRNA-449 family members were downregulated in HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines and low levels were associated with patients' worse prognosis. Moreover, trastuzumab-resistant HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines showed lower microRNAs-449 and higher Fatty Acid Synthase (FASN) expression, compared to sensitive cell lines. The direct regulation of FASN by microRNA-449a and microRNA-449b-5p was demonstrated. Moreover, microRNAs-449 overexpression and FASN inhibition decreased cell proliferation and sensitized cells to trastuzumab treatment by inhibiting the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Together, these results suggest the microRNAs-449/FASN axis as a potential therapeutic target in combination with anti-HER2 agents to overcome trastuzumab resistance and to improve treatment response in HER2-positive breast cancer patients.