---
reference_id: PMID:11788561
title: "Infliximab treatment induces apoptosis of lamina propria T lymphocytes in Crohn's disease."
authors:
- ten Hove T
- van Montfrans C
- Peppelenbosch MP
- van Deventer SJ
journal: Gut
year: '2002'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-02T20:15:06+00:00'
---

# Infliximab treatment induces apoptosis of lamina propria T lymphocytes in Crohn's disease.
**Authors:** ten Hove T, van Montfrans C, Peppelenbosch MP, van Deventer SJ
**Journal:** Gut (2002)

## Content

**BACKGROUND AND AIMS:** Treatment with infliximab induces remission in about 70% of patients with steroid refractory Crohn's disease. Because Crohn's disease is considered to be mediated by uncontrolled activation of mucosal T lymphocytes, we hypothesised that infliximab could induce apoptosis of T lymphocytes.

**METHODS:** Induction of apoptosis in vivo was studied in 10 patients with therapy refractory Crohn's disease. In vitro, resting or stimulated Jurkat T cells were incubated with infliximab.

**RESULTS:** Infusion of infliximab (5 mg/kg) in steroid refractory patients with Crohn's disease induced a clinical response in 9/10 patients but did not influence expression of activation markers, homing receptors, memory cells, Fas expression, or Bax/Bcl-2 expression on peripheral blood T lymphocytes. In contrast, a significant increase in CD3 and TUNEL positive cells within colonic biopsies was detected 24 hours after infusion of infliximab, suggesting that infliximab stimulates apoptosis of activated T lymphocytes but not of resting T cells. To test this hypothesis, the effects of infliximab on Jurkat T cells were investigated. We observed that infliximab induced apoptosis and an increase in the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio of CD3/CD28 stimulated Jurkat T cells but not of unstimulated Jurkat cells.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Our data indicate that infliximab treatment causes a rapid and specific increase in apoptosis of T lymphocytes in the gut mucosa. These findings may explain the rapid and sustained therapeutic effects of infliximab in Crohn's disease.