---
reference_id: PMID:27595322
title: Serotonin-reuptake inhibitors act centrally to cause bone loss in mice by counteracting a local anti-resorptive effect.
authors:
- Ortuño MJ
- Robinson ST
- Subramanyam P
- Paone R
- Huang YY
- Guo XE
- Colecraft HM
- Mann JJ
- Ducy P
journal: Nature medicine
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1038/nm.4166
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:17:44+00:00'
---

# Serotonin-reuptake inhibitors act centrally to cause bone loss in mice by counteracting a local anti-resorptive effect.
**Authors:** Ortuño MJ, Robinson ST, Subramanyam P, Paone R, Huang YY, Guo XE, Colecraft HM, Mann JJ, Ducy P
**Journal:** Nature medicine (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1038/nm.4166](https://doi.org/10.1038/nm.4166)

## Content

The use of selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) has been associated with an increased risk of bone fracture, raising concerns about their increasingly broader usage. This deleterious effect is poorly understood, and thus strategies to avoid this side effect remain elusive. We show here that fluoxetine (Flx), one of the most-prescribed SSRIs, acts on bone remodeling through two distinct mechanisms. Peripherally, Flx has anti-resorptive properties, directly impairing osteoclast differentiation and function through a serotonin-reuptake-independent mechanism that is dependent on intracellular Ca2+ levels and the transcription factor Nfatc1. With time, however, Flx also triggers a brain-serotonin-dependent rise in sympathetic output that increases bone resorption sufficiently to counteract its local anti-resorptive effect, thus leading to a net effect of impaired bone formation and bone loss. Accordingly, neutralizing this second mode of action through co-treatment with the β-blocker propranolol, while leaving the peripheral effect intact, prevents Flx-induced bone loss in mice. Hence, this study identifies a dual mode of action of SSRIs on bone remodeling and suggests a therapeutic strategy to block the deleterious effect on bone homeostasis from their chronic use.