---
reference_id: PMID:39725622
title: "[Asperosaponin VI alleviates TNBS-induced Crohn's disease-like colitis in mice by reducing intestinal epithelial cell apoptosis via inhibiting the PI3K/AKT/NF-κB signaling pathway]."
authors:
- Niu M
- Yin L
- Duan T
- Huang J
- Li J
- Geng Z
- Hu J
- Song C
journal: "Nan fang yi ke da xue xue bao = Journal of Southern Medical University"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.12122/j.issn.1673-4254.2024.12.09
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:27:03+00:00'
---

# [Asperosaponin VI alleviates TNBS-induced Crohn's disease-like colitis in mice by reducing intestinal epithelial cell apoptosis via inhibiting the PI3K/AKT/NF-κB signaling pathway].
**Authors:** Niu M, Yin L, Duan T, Huang J, Li J, Geng Z, Hu J, Song C
**Journal:** Nan fang yi ke da xue xue bao = Journal of Southern Medical University (2024)
**DOI:** [10.12122/j.issn.1673-4254.2024.12.09](https://doi.org/10.12122/j.issn.1673-4254.2024.12.09)

## Content

**OBJECTIVES:** To investigate the effects of asperosaponin VI (AVI) on intestinal epithelial cell apoptosis and intestinal barrier function in a mouse model of Crohn's disease (CD)-like colitis and explore its mechanisms.

**METHODS:** Male C57BL/6 mice with TNBS-induced CD-like colitis were treated with saline or AVI (daily dose 150 mg/kg) by gavage for 6 days. The changes in body weight, colon length, DAI scores, and colon pathologies of the mice were observed, and the expressions of inflammatory factors and tight injunction proteins were detected using ELISA and RT-qPCR. The effects of AVI on barrier function and apoptosis of mouse intestinal epithelial cells and TNF‑α‑treated Caco-2 cells were analyzed using immunofluorescence staining, TUNEL assay, and Western blotting. Network pharmacology, TUNEL assay, and Western blotting were performed to explore and validate the therapeutic mechanisms of AVI for CD.

**RESULTS:** In the mouse models of CD-like colitis, AVI significantly improved body weight loss, colon shortening and DAI and tissue inflammation scores, alleviated intestinal villi and goblet cell injuries, and lowered the expressions of inflammatory factors. AVI treatment significantly reduced the loss of tight junction proteins and apoptosis in both mouse intestinal epithelial cells and TNF‑α-stimulated Caco-2 cells. KEGG enrichment pathway analysis suggested that the therapeutic effect of AVI on CD was associated with inhibition of PI3K/AKT/NF-κB pathway activation, which was confirmed by lowered expressions of p-PI3K, p-AKT, and p-p65 in AVI-treated mouse models and Caco-2 cells. In Caco-2 cells, Recilisib significantly blocked the inhibitory effect of AVI on the PI3K/AKT/NF-κB pathway and TNF-α-induced apoptosis, and AKT1 knockdown experiment confirmed the role of the PI3K/AKT pathway for mediating the activation of downstream NF-κB signaling.

**CONCLUSIONS:** AVI can improve TNBS-induced CD-like colitis in mice by reducing intestinal epithelial cell apoptosis and intestinal barrier damage via inhibiting the PI3K/AKT/NF-κB signaling pathway.