---
reference_id: PMID:39574729
title: Epstein-Barr Virus Latent Membrane Protein 1 Subverts IMPDH pathways to drive B-cell oncometabolism.
authors:
- Burton EM
- Liang JH
- Mitra B
- Asara JM
- Gewurz BE
journal: "bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1101/2024.11.07.622457
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:40:00+00:00'
---

# Epstein-Barr Virus Latent Membrane Protein 1 Subverts IMPDH pathways to drive B-cell oncometabolism.
**Authors:** Burton EM, Liang JH, Mitra B, Asara JM, Gewurz BE
**Journal:** bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1101/2024.11.07.622457](https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.11.07.622457)

## Content

**UNLABELLED:** Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is associated with multiple types of cancers, many of which express the key viral oncoprotein Latent Membrane Protein 1 (LMP1). LMP1 is the only EBV-encoded protein whose expression is sufficient to transform both epithelial and B-cells. Although metabolism reprogramming is a cancer hallmark, much remains to be learned about how LMP1 alters lymphocyte oncometabolism. To gain insights into key B-cell metabolic pathways subverted by LMP1, we performed systematic metabolomic analyses on B cells with conditional LMP1 expression. This approach highlighted that LMP highly induces de novo purine biosynthesis, with xanthosine-5-P (XMP) as one of the most highly LMP1-upregulated metabolites. Consequently, IMPDH inhibition by mycophenolic acid (MPA) triggered apoptosis of LMP1-expressing EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCL), a key model for EBV-driven immunoblastic lymphomas. Whereas MPA instead caused growth arrest of Burkitt lymphoma cells with the EBV latency I program, conditional LMP1 expression triggered their apoptosis. Although both IMPDH isozymes are expressed in LCLs, only IMPDH2 was critical for LCL survival, whereas both contributed to proliferation of Burkitt cells with the EBV latency I program. Both LMP1 C-terminal cytoplasmic tail domains critical for primary human B-cell transformation were important for XMP production, and each contributed to LMP1-driven Burkitt cell sensitivity to MPA. MPA also de-repressed EBV lytic antigens including LMP1 in latency I Burkitt cells, highlighting crosstalk between the purine biosynthesis pathway and the EBV epigenome. These results suggest novel oncometabolism-based therapeutic approaches to LMP1-driven lymphomas.

**IMPORTANCE:** Altered metabolism is a hallmark of cancer, yet much remains to be learned about how EBV rewires host cell metabolism to support multiple malignancies. While the oncogene LMP1 is the only EBV-encoded gene that is sufficient to transform murine B-cells and rodent fibroblasts, knowledge has remained incomplete about how LMP1 alters host cell oncometabolism to aberrantly drive infected B-cell growth and survival. Likewise, it has remained unknown whether LMP1 expression creates metabolic vulnerabilities that can be targeted by small molecule approaches to trigger EBV-transformed B-cell programmed cell death. We therefore used metabolomic profiling to define how LMP1 signaling remodels the B-cell metabolome. We found that LMP1 upregulated purine nucleotide biosynthesis, likely to meet increased demand. Consequently, LMP1 expression sensitized Burkitt B-cells to growth arrest upon inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase blockade. Thus, while LMP1 itself may not be a therapeutic target, its signaling induces dependence on downstream druggable host cell nucleotide metabolism enzymes, suggesting rational therapeutic approaches.