---
reference_id: PMID:29157825
title: "1, 6-di-O-caffeoyl-β-D-glucopyranoside, a natural compound from Callicarpa nudiflora Hook impairs P2Y12 and thromboxane A2 receptor-mediated amplification of platelet activation and aggregation."
authors:
- Fu J
- Zhu X
- Wang W
- Lu H
- Zhang Z
- Liu T
- Xu H
- Fu H
- Ma S
- Luo Y
journal: "Phytomedicine : international journal of phytotherapy and phytopharmacology"
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2017.10.012
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:00:58+00:00'
---

# 1, 6-di-O-caffeoyl-β-D-glucopyranoside, a natural compound from Callicarpa nudiflora Hook impairs P2Y12 and thromboxane A2 receptor-mediated amplification of platelet activation and aggregation.
**Authors:** Fu J, Zhu X, Wang W, Lu H, Zhang Z, Liu T, Xu H, Fu H, Ma S, Luo Y
**Journal:** Phytomedicine : international journal of phytotherapy and phytopharmacology (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.phymed.2017.10.012](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phymed.2017.10.012)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Platelet activation and subsequent accumulation at sites of vascular injury perform a central role in thrombus formation, which is believed to be the trigger of several cardiovascular diseases, such as atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction and strokes. In this sense, the search for agents that are capable of blocking platelets aggregation has important implications for these diseases. Callicarpa nudiflora (C. nudiflora) Hook is a traditional Chinese medicine herb for eliminating stasis to subdue swelling and hemostasis. Our previous study found several compounds extracted from this herb, including 1, 6-di-O-caffeoyl-β-D-glucopyranoside (CGP), showed inhibitory effects on adenosine diphosphate (ADP) induced platelet aggregation.

**PURPOSE:** The aim of current study is confirmation of the anti-platelet effects and elucidation of the probable mechanisms.

**METHODS:** The experiments were performed on platelet rich plasma freshly isolated from SD rat. ADP, U46619 or arachidonic acid (AA) induced platelet aggregation assay were performed to evaluate the anti-platelet properties of CGP. Activated αIIbβ3 integrin abundance, serotonin (5-HT) secretion, thromboxane A2 (TXA2) synthesis was determined to assess the effects of CGP on platelet activation. Furthermore, RhoA and PI3K/Akt/GSK3β signal transduction were analyzed by Western Blotting assay. In addition, radiolabelled ligand binding assay was involved to evaluate the ability of CGP binding to thromboxane prostanoid (TP) and P2Y12 receptors.

**RESULTS:** CGP inhibited platelet aggregation induced by ADP, U46619 and arachidonic acid (AA), significantly. Furthermore, it is also found that LGP exhibited obvious inhibitory effects on αIIbβ3 integrin activation, serotonin (5-HT) secretion from granule and thromboxane A2 (TXA2) synthesis. Next, we found that CGP suppressed RhoA and PI3K/Akt/GSK3β signal transduction. Data from radiolabelled ligand binding assay showed that CGP displayed apparent competing effects on TP and P2Y12 receptors.

**CONCLUSION:** Collectively, the data presented here demonstrated that CGP, a natural compound from Callicarpa nudiflora Hook, inhibited the development of platelet aggregation and amplification of platelet activation. These inhibitory effects may be associated with its dual-receptor inhibition on P2Y12 and TP receptors.