---
reference_id: PMID:32666748
title: Drug-neutralizing Antibodies against TNF-α blockers as Biomarkers of Therapy Effect Evaluation.
authors:
- Kraev K
- Geneva-Popova M
- Popova V
- Popova S
- Maneva A
- Batalov A
- Stankova T
- Delcheva G
- Stefanova K
journal: Folia medica
year: '2020'
doi: 10.3897/folmed.62.e39402
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:38:58+00:00'
---

# Drug-neutralizing Antibodies against TNF-α blockers as Biomarkers of Therapy Effect Evaluation.
**Authors:** Kraev K, Geneva-Popova M, Popova V, Popova S, Maneva A, Batalov A, Stankova T, Delcheva G, Stefanova K
**Journal:** Folia medica (2020)
**DOI:** [10.3897/folmed.62.e39402](https://doi.org/10.3897/folmed.62.e39402)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** TNF-α blocker therapy is part of the treatment with biologics used in the management of inflammatory joint diseases. In recent years, drug-induced neutralizing antibodies have been shown to have a negative effect on the course of the disease process.

**AIM:** To investigate drug-induced neutralizing antibodies against TNF-α blocking drugs used in patients with inflammatory joint diseases and their effect on the clinical course of the disease.

**MATERIALS AND METHODS:** The study included 121 (56.8%) patients with rheumatoid arthritis, 50 (23.5%) patients with ankylosing spondylitis, 42 (19.7%) patients with psoriatic arthritis, and 31 sex and age-matched healthy controls. The patients were monitored at 0, 6, 12, and 24 months after initiation of TNF-α blocker treatment. The demographic data, vital signs and the parameters of inflammatory activity (C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and disease activity indices) were analyzed in all patients. Drug-induced anti-TNF-α blockers antibodies (adalimumab and etanercept) were analyzed using ELISA. Statistical analysis was performed with SPSS v. 24.

**RESULTS:** Drug-induced neutralizing antibodies against adalimumab were obtained in 11.57% of patients at 6 month, in 17.64% at 12 month, and in 24.8% at 24 month. Drug-induced neutralizing antibodies to etanercept were not demonstrated in patients followed up at 6 months, at 7.77% at 12 months, and at 9.63% at 24 months. Between the presence of neutralizing antibodies to blockers of TNF-α and indices available for disease activity, there is a strong positive correlation and Pearson Correlation = 0.701, p=0.001. Patients with poor clinical response and available antibodies against adalimumab at 12 months were 82.36% and patients treated with etanercept 71.42%. The difference between the two groups was non-significant (U = 0.527, p> 0.05). Patients with poor clinical response and available anti-adalimumab antibodies at 24 month were 75%, and in patients treated with etanercept - 87.50%, the difference between the two groups not being able to reach significance (U = 0.623, p> 0.05).

**CONCLUSION:** Drug-induced neutralizing antibodies against TNF-α blockers (adalimumab and etanercept) have a negative effect on the course of inflammatory joint disease and can be used as reliable biomarker to assess the effect of the treatment with these drugs.