---
reference_id: PMID:37454278
title: LAMB3 Promotes Intestinal Inflammation Through SERPINA3 and Is Directly Transcriptionally Regulated by P65 in Inflammatory Bowel Disease.
authors:
- Liu F
- Xu W
- Wang Y
- Huang Z
- Zhu Z
- Ou W
- Tang W
- Fu J
- Liu C
- Gu Y
- Liu Y
- Du P
journal: Inflammatory bowel diseases
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1093/ibd/izad140
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:28:16+00:00'
---

# LAMB3 Promotes Intestinal Inflammation Through SERPINA3 and Is Directly Transcriptionally Regulated by P65 in Inflammatory Bowel Disease.
**Authors:** Liu F, Xu W, Wang Y, Huang Z, Zhu Z, Ou W, Tang W, Fu J, Liu C, Gu Y, Liu Y, Du P
**Journal:** Inflammatory bowel diseases (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1093/ibd/izad140](https://doi.org/10.1093/ibd/izad140)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Various extracellular matrix (ECM) reshaping events are involved in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). LAMB3 is a vital subunit of laminin-332, an important ECM component. Data on the biological function of LAMB3 in intestinal inflammation are lacking. Our aim is to discuss the effect of LAMB3 in IBD.

**METHODS:** LAMB3 expression was assessed in cultured intestinal epithelial cells, inflamed mucosal tissues of patients and mouse colitis models. RNA sequencing, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting were used to detect the LAMB3 expression distribution and potential downstream target genes. Dual-luciferase assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation-quantitative polymerase chain reaction were used to determine whether P65 could transcriptionally activate LAMB3 under tumor necrosis factor α stimulation.

**RESULTS:** LAMB3 expression was increased in inflammatory states in intestinal epithelial cells and colonoids and was associated with adverse clinical outcomes in Crohn's disease. Knockdown of LAMB3 inhibited the expression of proinflammatory cytokines. Mechanistically, LAMB3 expression was directly transcriptionally activated by P65 and was inhibited by nuclear factor kappa B inhibitors under tumor necrosis factor α stimulation. Furthermore, RNA sequencing and replenishment experiments revealed that LAMB3 upregulated SERPINA3 to promote intestinal inflammation via the integrin α3β1/FAK pathway.

**CONCLUSION:** We propose that LAMB3 could serve as a potential therapeutic target of IBD and a predictor of intestinal stenosis of Crohn's disease. Our findings demonstrate the important role of ECM in the progression of IBD and offer an experimental basis for the treatment and prognosis of IBD.