---
reference_id: PMID:41801601
title: "Integrated computational, pharmacological and molecular investigations of piperitone in mitigating Alzheimer disease pathology by targeting cholinesterases, β-secretase and neuroinflammation."
authors:
- Anwer R
- Ullah I
- Khan AU
- Mir MA
- Bashir N
- Shah SUA
- Ayaz M
journal: Inflammopharmacology
year: '2026'
doi: 10.1007/s10787-026-02177-7
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:27:05+00:00'
---

# Integrated computational, pharmacological and molecular investigations of piperitone in mitigating Alzheimer disease pathology by targeting cholinesterases, β-secretase and neuroinflammation.
**Authors:** Anwer R, Ullah I, Khan AU, Mir MA, Bashir N, Shah SUA, Ayaz M
**Journal:** Inflammopharmacology (2026)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s10787-026-02177-7](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10787-026-02177-7)

## Content

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder linked with oxidative imbalance, cholinergic dysfunction and neuroinflammation, necessitates developing new multitarget natural compounds with potential disease-modifying action. Piperitone was evaluated using in-silico, in-vitro and in-vivo methods. In-silico study identified the pharmacokinetic parameters (PK) and the interaction stability of piperitone with acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), and β-secretase. In-vivo assessment of spatial memory in scopolamine-induced rat model was identified by behavioral assays with donepezil as a reference standard. In-vitro assays identified activity of cholinesterases, oxidative stress markers, levels of antioxidants and neuroinflammatory substrates, quantified with Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Piperitone demonstrated favorable PK properties & docking scores comparable to Donepezil, Tacrine & QUD. Molecular dynamics simulations (MDS) confirmed stable associations with catalytic residues of cholinesterases and beta-secretase. Dose dependent reduction was recorded in cholinesterases, improvement in behavioral outcomes, and supplemented defenses of antioxidants including Glutathione (Reduced Form (GSH), Glutathione S-Transferase (GST), Catalase (CAT), Superoxide Dismutase (SOD), and diminished Lipid Peroxidation (LPO), Nitric Oxide (NO), Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-α), Interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-18, Nuclear Factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB), NOD-like Receptor Family Pyrin Domain Containing 3 (NLRP3) and amyloid-β production, while improving Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) signaling. Piperitone showed significant neuroprotective and cognitive enhancement benefits by modulating cholinergic signaling, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation. These multitarget actions advocate piperitone as a prospective lead candidate for the development of disease modifying treatments for AD.