---
reference_id: PMID:29071435
title: The Effect of Xanthine Oxidase Inhibitors on Blood Pressure and Renal Function.
authors:
- Bove M
- Cicero AFG
- Borghi C
journal: Current hypertension reports
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1007/s11906-017-0793-3
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:54:15+00:00'
---

# The Effect of Xanthine Oxidase Inhibitors on Blood Pressure and Renal Function.
**Authors:** Bove M, Cicero AFG, Borghi C
**Journal:** Current hypertension reports (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s11906-017-0793-3](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11906-017-0793-3)

## Content

Several epidemiological studies have demonstrated the existence of a correlation between high serum uric acid (SUA) levels, hypertension, and chronic kidney disease (CKD). Xantine oxidase inhibitors (XOI) are the most powerful uric acid lowering drugs, with presumed beneficial effects on cardiovascular and renal system. The multifactorial mechanism linking hyperuricemia with cardiovascular and renal diseases involves both the SUA level and the xanthine oxidase (XO) activity. In this context, the clinical research has been recently focused at assessing the efficacy of urate-lowering drugs active on XO in patients with abnormal blood pressure values and renal dysfunction. The mechanism of action responsible for the beneficial effect of XOI has not completely elucidated, and long-term studies involving large population samples are needed. In particular, XOI could play an important role in the management of hypertension and CKD, especially in patients not entirely controlled by conventional therapies. In the present review, we summarize the results of recent clinical trials that largely support a positive effect of allopurinol and febuxostat on blood pressure, glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and serum creatinine in different populations of patients. Will these drugs be considered a reliable choice or alternative to currently used drugs for the hypertension and kidney failure treatment? The debate is open, but much evidence is accumulating and supporting this role.