---
reference_id: PMID:38660713
title: SGLT2-independent effects of canagliflozin on NHE3 and mitochondrial complex I activity inhibit proximal tubule fluid transport and albumin uptake.
authors:
- Albalawy WN
- Youm EB
- Shipman KE
- Trull KJ
- Baty CJ
- Long KR
- Rbaibi Y
- Wang XP
- Fagunloye OG
- White KA
- Jurczak MJ
- Kashlan OB
- Weisz OA
journal: American journal of physiology. Renal physiology
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1152/ajprenal.00005.2024
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:39:33+00:00'
---

# SGLT2-independent effects of canagliflozin on NHE3 and mitochondrial complex I activity inhibit proximal tubule fluid transport and albumin uptake.
**Authors:** Albalawy WN, Youm EB, Shipman KE, Trull KJ, Baty CJ, Long KR, Rbaibi Y, Wang XP, Fagunloye OG, White KA, Jurczak MJ, Kashlan OB, Weisz OA
**Journal:** American journal of physiology. Renal physiology (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1152/ajprenal.00005.2024](https://doi.org/10.1152/ajprenal.00005.2024)

## Content

Beyond glycemic control, SGLT2 inhibitors (SGLT2is) have protective effects on cardiorenal function. Renoprotection has been suggested to involve inhibition of NHE3 leading to reduced ATP-dependent tubular workload and mitochondrial oxygen consumption. NHE3 activity is also important for regulation of endosomal pH, but the effects of SGLT2i on endocytosis are unknown. We used a highly differentiated cell culture model of proximal tubule (PT) cells to determine the direct effects of SGLT2i on Na+-dependent fluid transport and endocytic uptake in this nephron segment. Strikingly, canagliflozin but not empagliflozin reduced fluid transport across cell monolayers and dramatically inhibited endocytic uptake of albumin. These effects were independent of glucose and occurred at clinically relevant concentrations of drug. Canagliflozin acutely inhibited surface NHE3 activity, consistent with a direct effect, but did not affect endosomal pH or NHE3 phosphorylation. In addition, canagliflozin rapidly and selectively inhibited mitochondrial complex I activity. Inhibition of mitochondrial complex I by metformin recapitulated the effects of canagliflozin on endocytosis and fluid transport, whereas modulation of downstream effectors AMPK and mTOR did not. Mice given a single dose of canagliflozin excreted twice as much urine over 24 h compared with empagliflozin-treated mice despite similar water intake. We conclude that canagliflozin selectively suppresses Na+-dependent fluid transport and albumin uptake in PT cells via direct inhibition of NHE3 and of mitochondrial function upstream of the AMPK/mTOR axis. These additional targets of canagliflozin contribute significantly to reduced PT Na+-dependent fluid transport in vivo.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Reduced NHE3-mediated Na+ transport has been suggested to underlie the cardiorenal protection provided by SGLT2 inhibitors. We found that canagliflozin, but not empagliflozin, reduced NHE3-dependent fluid transport and endocytic uptake in cultured proximal tubule cells. These effects were independent of SGLT2 activity and resulted from inhibition of mitochondrial complex I and NHE3. Studies in mice are consistent with greater effects of canagliflozin versus empagliflozin on fluid transport. Our data suggest that these selective effects of canagliflozin contribute to reduced Na+-dependent transport in proximal tubule cells.