---
reference_id: PMID:14751033
title: Evaluation of the therapeutic efficacy of different levothyroxine preparations in the treatment of human thyroid disease.
authors:
- Klein I
- Danzi S
journal: "Thyroid : official journal of the American Thyroid Association"
year: '2003'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:42:22+00:00'
---

# Evaluation of the therapeutic efficacy of different levothyroxine preparations in the treatment of human thyroid disease.
**Authors:** Klein I, Danzi S
**Journal:** Thyroid : official journal of the American Thyroid Association (2003)

## Content

At the present time, optimal therapy for hypothyroidism requires replacement of the deficiency in thyroid hormone with synthetic levothyroxine. Precise titration of this narrow therapeutic index drug is necessary to return the patient to a chemically and clinically euthyroid state. Seven levothyroxine formulations are Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved and four are available to the physician. Proper dosage is established based on thyrotropin (TSH) testing and clinical evaluation. Each levothyroxine preparation must comply with FDA standards for bioavailability but may vary with respect to its dissolution and absorption properties and are not interchangeable. This equivalence testing is done on normal volunteers and requires a suprapharmacologic dose of levothyroxine in order to make the determination of bioavailability. In this review we discuss the various methods to evaluate therapeutic efficacy and bioequivalence of levothyroxine preparations in the treatment of thyroid disease. These are relevant to the physician and patient because small differences in the efficacy can produce unwanted effects of either underreplacement or overreplacement.