---
reference_id: PMID:32352349
title: "Refractory gout - does it exist?"
authors:
- Löffler W
- Fairbanks L
journal: "Nucleosides, nucleotides & nucleic acids"
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1080/15257770.2020.1746804
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:54:15+00:00'
---

# Refractory gout - does it exist?
**Authors:** Löffler W, Fairbanks L
**Journal:** Nucleosides, nucleotides & nucleic acids (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1080/15257770.2020.1746804](https://doi.org/10.1080/15257770.2020.1746804)

## Content

Refractory gout (RG) has been increasingly recognized to be a major problem in clinical care. Patients diagnosed with RG have been assumed to be non-adherent, or under-dosed, to the greater part. In a minority, pathophysiological mechanisms have been discussed. During the last two decades, however, none of the studies differentiated non-adherence from impaired response to drug treatment. A definition of adherence has been proposed in the case of allopurinol treatment (oxipurinol in serum, >20 µmol/l), which would seem to confirm a dose of about 50 mg/d being taken by the patients. Guidelines for treating gout published by national or international rheumatology societies do provide very little, if any, information on how to evaluate patients with RG. Coinciding with the development of the xanthine oxidase inhibitor, febuxostat, a moderate increase in the number of publications on RG was observed, with a sharp rise following after its approval for clinical use. It was demonstrated recently that intensive training and supervision of patients with gout resulted in very low numbers of patients not reaching treatment targets. It should be remembered that allopurinol, is an ideal instrument for differentiating non-adherence from true impaired response. We conclude that, apart from very rare patients, needing confirmation of such a diagnosis by metabolic ward studies, RG does not exist, and with close to hundred percent, treatment failure is due to patient and physician behavior.