---
reference_id: PMID:41418971
title: Callicarpa nudiflora Hook polysaccharides improve lipopolysaccharide-induced small intestinal injury by modulating gut microbiota metabolism and inhibiting NF-κB/MAPK signaling.
authors:
- Chen W
- Zhang B
- Nong K
- Lang W
- Qin X
- Liu Z
- Yang Z
- Chen T
- Cao R
- Shi H
- Li L
- Wang X
- Zhang H
journal: International journal of biological macromolecules
year: '2026'
doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.149763
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:29:59+00:00'
---

# Callicarpa nudiflora Hook polysaccharides improve lipopolysaccharide-induced small intestinal injury by modulating gut microbiota metabolism and inhibiting NF-κB/MAPK signaling.
**Authors:** Chen W, Zhang B, Nong K, Lang W, Qin X, Liu Z, Yang Z, Chen T, Cao R, Shi H, Li L, Wang X, Zhang H
**Journal:** International journal of biological macromolecules (2026)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.149763](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.149763)

## Content

Callicarpa nudiflora Hook (C. nudiflora Hook) is a characteristic medicine in China, with curative effects on inflammation caused by bacterial infection. The role of C. nudiflora Hook polysaccharide (CNLP), a pyranose-type acidic polysaccharide, in bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced acute small intestinal inflammation has not been systematically investigated. We investigated the protective role of CNLP in mitigating LPS-induced small intestinal and systemic inflammation, along with potential underlying molecular mechanisms. Mice were pretreated with CNLP via intragastric administration, followed by intraperitoneal bacterial LPS injection to create a small intestinal inflammatory injury mouse model. The therapeutic potential of CNLP was evaluated through experiments, including enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, histological analysis, antioxidant capacity assessment, immunofluorescence staining, and western blot, combining 16S rRNA sequencing and targeted metabolomics to analyze potential mechanisms for small intestinal inflammation treatment. CNLP ameliorated LPS-induced small intestinal morphology, maintained small intestinal epithelial integrity and antioxidant capacity, and reduced small intestinal infiltration of neutrophils and macrophages, also decreasing systemic levels of inflammatory factors (interleukin-1β, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-α, and interferon-γ). CNLP inhibited the LPS-activated inflammatory NF-κB/MAPK signaling pathway activated by LPS. It also reduced the relative abundance of pathogenic bacteria (Staphylococcus) and increased the relative abundance of beneficial short-chain fatty acid (SCFA)-producing bacteria (Ruminococcus and Flintibacter), leading to an increase in acetate and butyrate, which maintained small intestinal barrier function and reduced inflammatory responses. Overall, CNLP maintained small intestinal barrier function and mitigated inflammation. These protective effects of CNLP are linked to the remodeling of intestinal flora composition and its metabolism.