---
reference_id: PMID:39181011
title: Folylpolyglutamate synthetase inactivation in relapsed ALL induces a druggable folate metabolic vulnerability.
authors:
- Li H
- Chen Y
- Ding M
- Liu J
- Sun H
- Fang H
- Brady SW
- Xu Y
- Glaser F
- Ma X
- Tang Y
- Du L
- Wu X
- Wang S
- Zhu L
- Li B
- Shen S
- Zhang J
- Zheng L
- Yu J
- Assaraf YG
- Zhou BS
journal: "Drug resistance updates : reviews and commentaries in antimicrobial and anticancer chemotherapy"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1016/j.drup.2024.101141
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:18:16+00:00'
---

# Folylpolyglutamate synthetase inactivation in relapsed ALL induces a druggable folate metabolic vulnerability.
**Authors:** Li H, Chen Y, Ding M, Liu J, Sun H, Fang H, Brady SW, Xu Y, Glaser F, Ma X, Tang Y, Du L, Wu X, Wang S, Zhu L, Li B, Shen S, Zhang J, Zheng L, Yu J, Assaraf YG, Zhou BS
**Journal:** Drug resistance updates : reviews and commentaries in antimicrobial and anticancer chemotherapy (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.drup.2024.101141](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.drup.2024.101141)

## Content

**AIMS:** The antifolate methotrexate (MTX) is an anchor drug used in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with poorly understood chemoresistance mechanisms in relapse. Herein we find decreased folate polyglutamylation network activities and inactivating FPGS mutations, both of which could induce MTX resistance and folate metabolic vulnerability in relapsed ALL.

**METHODS:** We utilized integrated systems biology analysis of transcriptomic and genomic data from relapse ALL cohorts to infer hidden ALL relapse drivers and related genetic alternations during clonal evolution. The drug sensitivity assay was used to determine the impact of relapse-specific FPGS mutations on sensitivity to different antifolates and chemotherapeutics in ALL cells. We used liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) to quantify MTX and folate polyglutamate levels in folylpoly-γ-glutamate synthetase (FPGS) mutant ALL cells. Enzymatic activity and protein degradation assays were also conducted to characterize the catalytic properties and protein stabilities of FPGS mutants. An ALL cell line-derived mouse leukemia xenograft model was used to evaluate the in vivo impact of FPGS inactivation on leukemogenesis and sensitivity to the polyglutamatable antifolate MTX as well as non-polyglutamatble lipophilic antifolate trimetrexate (TMQ).

**RESULTS:** We found a significant decrease in folate polyglutamylation network activities during ALL relapse using RNA-seq data. Supported by functional evidence, we identified multifactorial mechanisms of FPGS inactivation in relapsed ALL, including its decreased network activity and gene expression, focal gene deletion, impaired catalytic activity, and increased protein degradation. These deleterious FPGS alterations induce MTX resistance and inevitably cause marked intracellular folate shrinkage, which could be efficiently targeted by a polyglutamylation-independent lipophilic antifolate TMQ in vitro and in vivo.

**CONCLUSIONS:** MTX resistance in relapsed ALL relies on FPGS inactivation, which inevitably induces a folate metabolic vulnerability, allowing for an efficacious antifolate ALL treatment strategy that is based upon TMQ, thereby surmounting chemoresistance in relapsed ALL.