---
reference_id: PMID:6112387
title: Differential inhibition by low-dose aspirin of human venous prostacyclin synthesis and platelet thromboxane synthesis.
authors:
- Hanley SP
- Bevan J
- Cockbill SR
- Heptinstall S
journal: "Lancet (London, England)"
year: '1981'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-02T20:15:28+00:00'
---

# Differential inhibition by low-dose aspirin of human venous prostacyclin synthesis and platelet thromboxane synthesis.
**Authors:** Hanley SP, Bevan J, Cockbill SR, Heptinstall S
**Journal:** Lancet (London, England) (1981)

## Content

The capacity of venous tissue for prostacyclin synthesis was determined in 68 patients undergoing surgery for removal of varicose veins. A single dose of aspirin (81 mg or 300 mg) taken 14 h preoperatively strongly inhibited its synthesis, and the effect of 300 mg was still evident 48 h after ingestion. A single dose of 40 mg aspirin taken 14 h preoperatively had no effect on prostacyclin synthesis. The capacity of blood platelets to synthesise thromboxane (measured as malondialdehyde) was determined in volunteers before and at various times after ingestion of 300 mg or 40 mg aspirin. Both doses had an inhibitory effect that lasted for at least 96 h. The length of time for which the amount of thromboxane synthesised was insufficient to support platelet aggregation and the platelet release reaction depended on both the donor and the dose of aspirin. If prostacyclin and thromboxane are important in the pathogenesis of thrombosis, then doses of aspirin much lower than those used previously should be tested. The long-lasting effect of 300 mg aspirin on both venous tissue and platelets indicates that this dose is unlikely to produce a favourable prostacyclin/thromboxane balance.