---
reference_id: PMID:30194282
title: The EGF-LIKE domain of thrombospondin-4 is a key determinant in the development of pain states due to increased excitatory synaptogenesis.
authors:
- Park JF
- Yu YP
- Gong N
- Trinh VN
- Luo ZD
journal: The Journal of biological chemistry
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1074/jbc.RA118.003591
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:26:01+00:00'
---

# The EGF-LIKE domain of thrombospondin-4 is a key determinant in the development of pain states due to increased excitatory synaptogenesis.
**Authors:** Park JF, Yu YP, Gong N, Trinh VN, Luo ZD
**Journal:** The Journal of biological chemistry (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1074/jbc.RA118.003591](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.RA118.003591)

## Content

Up-regulation of thrombospondin-4 (TSP4) or voltage-gated calcium channel subunit α2δ1 (Cavα2δ1) proteins in the spinal cord contributes to neuropathic pain development through an unidentified mechanism. We have previously shown that TSP4 interacts with Cavα2δ1 to promote excitatory synaptogenesis and the development of chronic pain states. However, the TSP4 determinants responsible for these changes are not known. Here, we tested the hypothesis that the Cavα2δ1-binding domains of TSP4 are synaptogenic and pronociceptive. We mapped the major Cavα2δ1-binding domains of TSP4 within the coiled-coil and epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like domains in vitro Intrathecal injection of TSP4 fragment proteins containing the EGF-like domain (EGF-LIKE) into naïve rodents was sufficient for inducing behavioral hypersensitivity similar to that produced by an equal molar dose of full-length TSP4. Gabapentin, a drug that binds to Cavα2δ1, blocked EGF-LIKE-induced behavioral hypersensitivity in a dose-dependent manner, supporting the notion that EGF-LIKE interacts with Cavα2δ1 and thereby mediates behavioral hypersensitivity. This notion was further supported by our findings that a peptide within EGF-LIKE (EGFD355-369) could block TSP4- or Cavα2δ1-induced behavioral hypersensitivity after intrathecal injections. Furthermore, only TSP4 proteins that contained EGF-LIKE could promote excitatory synaptogenesis between sensory and spinal cord neurons, which could be blocked by peptide EGFD355-369. Together, these findings indicate that EGF-LIKE is the molecular determinant that mediates aberrant excitatory synaptogenesis and chronic pain development. Blocking interactions between EGF-LIKE and Cavα2δ1 could be an alternative approach in designing target-specific pain medications.