---
reference_id: PMID:30459355
title: Oncogenic activity of poly (ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase.
authors:
- Marques M
- Jangal M
- Wang LC
- Kazanets A
- da Silva SD
- Zhao T
- Lovato A
- Yu H
- Jie S
- Del Rincon S
- Mackey J
- Damaraju S
- Alaoui-Jamali M
- Witcher M
journal: Oncogene
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1038/s41388-018-0568-6
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:23:20+00:00'
---

# Oncogenic activity of poly (ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase.
**Authors:** Marques M, Jangal M, Wang LC, Kazanets A, da Silva SD, Zhao T, Lovato A, Yu H, Jie S, Del Rincon S, Mackey J, Damaraju S, Alaoui-Jamali M, Witcher M
**Journal:** Oncogene (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41388-018-0568-6](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41388-018-0568-6)

## Content

Poly (ADP-ribosylation), known as PARylation, is a post-translational modification catalyzed by poly (ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARP) and primarily removed by the enzyme poly (ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG). While the aberrant removal of post-translation modifications including phosphorylation and methylation has known tumorigenic effects, deregulation of PARylation has not been widely studied. Increased hydrolysis of PARylation chains facilitates cancer growth through enhancing estrogen receptor (ER)-driven proliferation, but oncogenic transformation has not been linked to increased PARG expression. In this study, we find that elevated PARG levels are associated with a poor prognosis in breast cancers, especially in HER2-positive and triple-negative subtypes. Using both in vitro and in vivo models, we demonstrate that heightened expression of catalytically active PARG facilitates cell transformation and invasion of normal mammary epithelial cells. Catalytically inactive PARG mutants did not recapitulate these phenotypes. Consistent with clinical data showing elevated PARG predicts poor outcomes in HER2+ patients, we observed that PARG acts in synergy with HER2 to promote neoplastic growth of immortalized mammary cells. In contrast, PARG depletion significantly impairs the growth and metastasis of triple-negative breast tumors. Mechanistically, we find that PARG interacts with SMAD2/3 and significantly decreases their PARylation in non-transformed cells, leading to enhanced expression of SMAD target genes. Further linking SMAD-mediated transcription to the oncogenicity of PARG, we show that PARG-mediated anchorage-independent growth and invasion are dependent, at least in part, on SMAD expression. Overall, our study underscores the oncogenic impact of aberrant protein PARylation and highlights the therapeutic potential of PARG inhibition in breast cancer.