---
reference_id: PMID:21171084
title: "Mutant K-ras promotes carcinogen-induced murine colorectal tumourigenesis, but does not alter tumour chromosome stability."
authors:
- Luo F
- Poulogiannis G
- Ye H
- Hamoudi R
- Zhang W
- Dong G
- Arends MJ
journal: The Journal of pathology
year: '2011'
doi: 10.1002/path.2790
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:20:27+00:00'
---

# Mutant K-ras promotes carcinogen-induced murine colorectal tumourigenesis, but does not alter tumour chromosome stability.
**Authors:** Luo F, Poulogiannis G, Ye H, Hamoudi R, Zhang W, Dong G, Arends MJ
**Journal:** The Journal of pathology (2011)
**DOI:** [10.1002/path.2790](https://doi.org/10.1002/path.2790)

## Content

K-ras (KRAS) mutations are observed in around 40% of human colorectal adenomas and carcinomas. Previously, we developed and characterized a strain of transgenic mice with inducible intestinal epithelial expression of K-ras{Val12} via a Cre/LoxP system. To evaluate the influence of mutant K-ras on carcinogen-induced colorectal tumourigenesis, we induced neoplastic alterations in the large intestines of wild-type and K-ras{Val12} mice using the colon-selective carcinogen 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH), which has been widely used to induce colorectal tumours that are histopathologically similar to those observed in humans. K-ras{Val12} expression significantly promoted DMH-induced colorectal tumourigenesis: the average lifespan of the mice decreased from 38.52 ± 1.97 weeks for 40 control mice to 32.42 ± 2.17 weeks for 26 K-ras{Val12} mice (mean ± SEM, p < 0.05) and the abundance of large intestinal tumours increased from 2.27 ± 0.15 per control mouse to 3.85 ± 0.20 in K-ras{Val12} mice (mean ± SEM, p < 0.01). Adenomas from DMH-treated K-ras{Val12} mice showed significantly higher proportions of Ki-67-positive proliferating cells (10.9 ± 0.69%) compared with those from DMH-treated wild-type mice (7.77 ± 0.47%) (mean ± SEM, p < 0.01) and a mild increase in apoptotic nuclei staining for cleaved caspase-3 (1.94 ± 0.21% compared with 1.15 ± 0.14%, mean ± SEM, p < 0.01). In the adenomas from DMH-treated K-ras{Val12} mice, K-ras{Val12} transgene recombination and expression were confirmed, with immunohistochemical evidence of strong Erk/MapK and mild PI3K/Akt pathway activation compared with adenomas from DMH-treated wild-type mice. Microarray hybridization and clustering analysis demonstrated different expression profiles in adenomas from DMH-treated wild-type and DMH-treated K-ras{Val12} mice, indicating involvement of different molecular mechanisms including Erk/MapK and PI3K/Akt signalling in K-ras{Val12}-expressing adenomas. Array-comparative genomic hybridization analysis showed chromosome stability in both cohorts, with only a very few tiny alterations observed in one adenoma from a DMH-treated K-ras{Val12} mouse. Taken together, these data show that mutant K-ras significantly promotes DMH-induced colorectal tumourigenesis, resulting in distinct changes in cell signalling and proliferation, but does not alter chromosome stability in the tumours.