---
reference_id: PMID:37773574
title: "Gene expression of protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1 (PRKAA1), solute carrier family 2 member 1 (SLC2A1) and mechanistic target of rapamycin (MTOR) in metformin-treated type 2 diabetes patients with COVID-19: impact on inflammation markers."
authors:
- Petakh P
- Kamyshna I
- Kamyshnyi A
journal: Inflammopharmacology
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1007/s10787-023-01341-7
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:38:52+00:00'
---

# Gene expression of protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1 (PRKAA1), solute carrier family 2 member 1 (SLC2A1) and mechanistic target of rapamycin (MTOR) in metformin-treated type 2 diabetes patients with COVID-19: impact on inflammation markers.
**Authors:** Petakh P, Kamyshna I, Kamyshnyi A
**Journal:** Inflammopharmacology (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s10787-023-01341-7](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10787-023-01341-7)

## Content

The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a global health crisis that has severely impacted patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D). T2D patients have a higher risk of experiencing severe COVID-19 symptoms, hospitalization, and mortality compared to patients without diabetes. The dysregulated immune response in T2D patients can exacerbate the severity of COVID-19 symptoms. Insulin therapy, a common treatment for T2D patients, has been linked to increased mortality in COVID-19 patients with T2D. However, metformin, an anti-diabetic medication, has been shown to have anti-inflammatory properties that may mitigate the cytokine storm observed in severe COVID-19 cases. In this study, we investigated how the PRKAA1, SLC2A1, and MTOR genes contribute to inflammation markers in COVID-19 patients with T2D, who were receiving either insulin or metformin therapy. Our findings revealed that metformin treatment was associated with reduced expression of genes involved in Th1/Th17 cell differentiation. These results suggest that metformin could be a potential treatment option for T2D patients with COVID-19 due to its anti-inflammatory properties, which may improve patient outcomes.