---
reference_id: PMID:31378283
title: "Molecular imaging of β-cells: diabetes and beyond."
authors:
- Wei W
- Ehlerding EB
- Lan X
- Luo QY
- Cai W
journal: Advanced drug delivery reviews
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1016/j.addr.2018.06.022
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:41:50+00:00'
---

# Molecular imaging of β-cells: diabetes and beyond.
**Authors:** Wei W, Ehlerding EB, Lan X, Luo QY, Cai W
**Journal:** Advanced drug delivery reviews (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.addr.2018.06.022](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.addr.2018.06.022)

## Content

Since diabetes is becoming a global epidemic, there is a great need to develop early β-cell specific diagnostic techniques for this disorder. There are two types of diabetes (i.e., type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM)). In T1DM, the destruction of pancreatic β-cells leads to reduced insulin production or even absolute insulin deficiency, which consequently results in hyperglycemia. Actually, a central issue in the pathophysiology of all types of diabetes is the relative reduction of β-cell mass (BCM) and/or impairment of the function of individual β-cells. In the past two decades, scientists have been trying to develop imaging techniques for noninvasive measurement of the viability and mass of pancreatic β-cells. Despite intense scientific efforts, only two tracers for positron emission tomography (PET) and one contrast agent for magnetic resonance (MR) imaging are currently under clinical evaluation. β-cell specific imaging probes may also allow us to precisely and specifically visualize transplanted β-cells and to improve transplantation outcomes, as transplantation of pancreatic islets has shown promise in treating T1DM. In addition, some of these probes can be applied to the preoperative detection of hidden insulinomas as well. In the present review, we primarily summarize potential tracers under development for imaging β-cells with a focus on tracers for PET, SPECT, MRI, and optical imaging. We will discuss the advantages and limitations of the various imaging probes and extend an outlook on future developments in the field.