---
reference_id: PMID:31731717
title: Lunasin Improves the LDL-C Lowering Efficacy of Simvastatin via Inhibiting PCSK9 Expression in Hepatocytes and ApoE-/- Mice.
authors:
- Gu L
- Gong Y
- Zhao C
- Wang Y
- Tian Q
- Lei G
- Liang Y
- Zhao W
- Tan S
journal: "Molecules (Basel, Switzerland)"
year: '2019'
doi: 10.3390/molecules24224140
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T20:51:56+00:00'
---

# Lunasin Improves the LDL-C Lowering Efficacy of Simvastatin via Inhibiting PCSK9 Expression in Hepatocytes and ApoE-/- Mice.
**Authors:** Gu L, Gong Y, Zhao C, Wang Y, Tian Q, Lei G, Liang Y, Zhao W, Tan S
**Journal:** Molecules (Basel, Switzerland) (2019)
**DOI:** [10.3390/molecules24224140](https://doi.org/10.3390/molecules24224140)

## Content

Statins are the most popular therapeutic drugs to lower plasma low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) synthesis by competitively inhibiting hydroxyl-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase and up-regulating the hepatic low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR). However, the concomitant up-regulation of proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) by statin attenuates its cholesterol lowering efficacy. Lunasin, a soybean derived 43-amino acid polypeptide, has been previously shown to functionally enhance LDL uptake via down-regulating PCSK9 and up-regulating LDLR in hepatocytes and mice. Herein, we investigated the LDL-C lowering efficacy of simvastatin combined with lunasin. In HepG2 cells, after co-treatment with 1 μM simvastatin and 5 μM lunasin for 24 h, the up-regulation of PCSK9 by simvastatin was effectively counteracted by lunasin via down-regulating hepatocyte nuclear factor 1α (HNF-1α), and the functional LDL uptake was additively enhanced. Additionally, after combined therapy with simvastatin and lunasin for four weeks, ApoE-/- mice had significantly lower PCSK9 and higher LDLR levels in hepatic tissues and remarkably reduced plasma concentrations of total cholesterol (TC) and LDL-C, as compared to each monotherapy. Conclusively, lunasin significantly improved the LDL-C lowering efficacy of simvastatin by counteracting simvastatin induced elevation of PCSK9 in hepatocytes and ApoE-/- mice. Simvastatin combined with lunasin could be a novel regimen for hypercholesterolemia treatment.