---
reference_id: PMID:34192954
title: "C3 glomerulonephritis and systemic lupus erythematosus: A report of a patient treated with eculizumab and review of the literature."
authors:
- Fernandez-Ruiz R
- Blank RB
- Wu M
- Belmont HM
journal: Lupus
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1177/09612033211027938
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:41:12+00:00'
---

# C3 glomerulonephritis and systemic lupus erythematosus: A report of a patient treated with eculizumab and review of the literature.
**Authors:** Fernandez-Ruiz R, Blank RB, Wu M, Belmont HM
**Journal:** Lupus (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1177/09612033211027938](https://doi.org/10.1177/09612033211027938)

## Content

**INTRODUCTION:** Activation of the complement pathway by immune complexes is a key feature of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and SLE glomerulonephritis, which translates into low levels of C3 and C4 during active disease. C3 glomerulonephritis (C3GN) is part of a broader group of rare renal diseases, the C3 glomerulopathies, characterized by prominent C3 accumulation in the glomeruli with minimal to no immunoglobulin (Ig) deposition secondary to dysregulation of the alternative pathway of the complement system. Distinguishing lupus nephritis from other complement-mediated kidney disorders, including C3GN, represents a diagnostic challenge with potential therapeutic implications.

**METHODS:** We report an unusual case of a 55-year-old woman with SLE and previous biopsy-proven class IV lupus nephritis, subsequently diagnosed with C3GN. Furthermore, we review the available literature published from January 2010-March 2021 on the clinical features and management of C3GN in the setting of SLE.

**RESULTS:** In addition to our case, very few reports exist in the literature regarding C3GN in association with SLE. The underlying pathogenic mechanism of C3GN consists of dysregulation of the alternative pathway of the complement system, either due to genetic variation in complement-related genes or to acquired autoantibodies targeting C3 or C5 convertases; the latter mechanism could explain the occurrence of C3GN in the setting of autoimmune diseases, although it was not definitively identified in our patient or others with SLE. Similar to some of the previous reports, after suboptimal renal response on mycophenolate mofetil and rituximab, our patient has been successfully treated with eculizumab, thus far with >50% improvement in proteinuria.

**CONCLUSIONS:** C3GN represents an additional mechanism of renal injury in SLE mediated by alternative complement pathway dysregulation. Although rare, patients with SLE and persistent proteinuria with very low C3 would benefit from expedited renal biopsy to evaluate for C3GN as well as genetic testing, since this entity could require a different therapeutic approach.