---
reference_id: PMID:23620660
title: Profile of certolizumab and its potential in the treatment of psoriatic arthritis.
authors:
- Chimenti MS
- Saraceno R
- Chiricozzi A
- Giunta A
- Chimenti S
- Perricone R
journal: "Drug design, development and therapy"
year: '2013'
doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S31658
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:39:04+00:00'
---

# Profile of certolizumab and its potential in the treatment of psoriatic arthritis.
**Authors:** Chimenti MS, Saraceno R, Chiricozzi A, Giunta A, Chimenti S, Perricone R
**Journal:** Drug design, development and therapy (2013)
**DOI:** [10.2147/DDDT.S31658](https://doi.org/10.2147/DDDT.S31658)

## Content

Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) is a chronic inflammatory arthropathy associated with psoriasis (PsO). PsA could be considered an enthesal disease because of the link between mechanical stress (entheses) and immunologically active tissue (synovium). Evidence of efficacy of anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) is supported by reduction of histological vascularity and immune cell infiltrates in synovial tissue after treatment. Certolizumab pegol (CZP) is a polyethylene glycolylated (PEGylated) Fab' fragment of a humanized monoclonal antibody that binds and neutralizes human TNF-α. The PEG moiety of the Fab fragment, markedly increases the half-life of CZP and confers to the drug a unique structure that differs from the other anti-TNF-α agents tested for the treatment of Crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis, nonradiographic spondyloarthritis, PsO, and PsA. In contrast to other anti-TNF-α agents, CZP did not mediate increased levels of apoptosis, suggesting that these mechanisms are not essential for the anti-TNF-α efficacy in Crohn's disease. As CZP, infliximab, and adalimumab, but not etanercept, almost completely inhibited lipopolysaccharide-induced interleukin-1 beta release from monocytes, this cytokine-production inhibition may be relevant for drug efficacy. Due to these characteristics, it has been demonstrated in clinical studies that CZP effectively improves signs and symptoms of arthritis and physical function and skin manifestations of PsO, with a safety profile similar to rheumatoid arthritis. This drug can be considered as a valid treatment in patients affected by PsA. The efficacy and tolerability profiles suggest CZP as a suitable antipsoriatic drug in the treatment of PsA.