---
reference_id: PMID:24948814
title: α2δ-1 signaling in nucleus accumbens is necessary for cocaine-induced relapse.
authors:
- Spencer S
- Brown RM
- Quintero GC
- Kupchik YM
- Thomas CA
- Reissner KJ
- Kalivas PW
journal: "The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience"
year: '2014'
doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1204-13.2014
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:28:22+00:00'
---

# α2δ-1 signaling in nucleus accumbens is necessary for cocaine-induced relapse.
**Authors:** Spencer S, Brown RM, Quintero GC, Kupchik YM, Thomas CA, Reissner KJ, Kalivas PW
**Journal:** The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience (2014)
**DOI:** [10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1204-13.2014](https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1204-13.2014)

## Content

Relapse to cocaine seeking is associated with potentiated excitatory synapses in nucleus accumbens. α2δ-1 is an auxiliary subunit of voltage-gated calcium channels that affects calcium-channel trafficking and kinetics, initiates extracellular signaling cascades, and promotes excitatory synaptogenesis. Previous data demonstrate that repeated exposure to alcohol, nicotine, methamphetamine, and morphine upregulates α2δ-1 in reward-related brain regions, but it was unclear whether this alteration generalized to cocaine. Here, we show that α2δ-1 protein was increased in nucleus accumbens after cocaine self-administration and extinction compared with saline controls. Furthermore, the endogenous ligand thrombospondin-1, responsible for the synaptogenic properties of the α2δ-1 receptor, was likewise elevated. Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of EPSCs in nucleus accumbens, we demonstrated that gabapentin, a specific α2δ-1 antagonist, preferentially reduced the amplitude and increased the paired-pulse ratio of EPSCs evoked by electrical stimulation in slices from cocaine-experienced rats compared with controls. In vivo, gabapentin microinjected in the nucleus accumbens core attenuated cocaine-primed but not cue-induced reinstatement. Importantly, gabapentin's effects on drug seeking were not due to a general depression of spontaneous or cocaine-induced locomotor activity. Moreover, gabapentin had no effect on reinstatement of sucrose seeking. These data indicate that α2δ-1 contributes specifically to cocaine-reinstated drug seeking, and identifies this protein as a target for the development of cocaine relapse medications. These results also inform ongoing discussion in the literature regarding efficacy of gabapentin as a candidate addiction therapy.