---
reference_id: PMID:30273442
title: Dual-specificity phosphatase 6 deletion protects the colonic epithelium against inflammation and promotes both proliferation and tumorigenesis.
authors:
- Beaudry K
- Langlois MJ
- Montagne A
- Cagnol S
- Carrier JC
- Rivard N
journal: Journal of cellular physiology
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1002/jcp.27420
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:20:27+00:00'
---

# Dual-specificity phosphatase 6 deletion protects the colonic epithelium against inflammation and promotes both proliferation and tumorigenesis.
**Authors:** Beaudry K, Langlois MJ, Montagne A, Cagnol S, Carrier JC, Rivard N
**Journal:** Journal of cellular physiology (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1002/jcp.27420](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcp.27420)

## Content

The Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway controls fundamental cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. The dual-specificity phosphatase 6 (DUSP6) regulates cytoplasmic MAPK signaling by dephosphorylating and inactivating extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2) MAPK. To determine the role of DUSP6 in the maintenance of intestinal homeostasis, we characterized the intestinal epithelial phenotype of Dusp6 knockout (KO) mice under normal, oncogenic, and proinflammatory conditions. Our results show that loss of Dusp6 increased crypt depth and epithelial cell proliferation without altering colonic architecture. Crypt regeneration capacity was also enhanced, as revealed by ex vivo Dusp6 KO organoid cultures. Additionally, loss of Dusp6 induced goblet cell expansion without affecting enteroendocrine and absorptive cell differentiation. Our data also demonstrate that Dusp6 KO mice were protected from acute dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis, as opposed to wild-type mice. In addition, Dusp6 gene deletion markedly enhanced tumor load in Apc Min/+ mice. Decreased DUSP6 expression by RNA interference in HT29 colorectal cancer cells enhanced ERK1/2 activation levels and promoted both anchorage-independent growth in soft agar as well as invasion through Matrigel. Finally, DUSP6 mRNA expression in human colorectal tumors was decreased in advanced stage tumors compared with paired normal tissues. These results demonstrate that DUSP6 phosphatase, by controlling ERK1/2 activation, regulates colonic inflammatory responses, and protects the intestinal epithelium against oncogenic stress.