---
reference_id: PMID:27001422
title: Cardiac salvage by tweaking with beta-3-adrenergic receptors.
authors:
- Balligand JL
journal: Cardiovascular research
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvw056
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:01:32+00:00'
---

# Cardiac salvage by tweaking with beta-3-adrenergic receptors.
**Authors:** Balligand JL
**Journal:** Cardiovascular research (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1093/cvr/cvw056](https://doi.org/10.1093/cvr/cvw056)

## Content

Overstimulation of the orthosympathetic system leads to cardiovascular cell and tissue damage through prolonged activation of β-1-2 adrenergic receptors (BARs). The more recent identification of the third isotype of BAR (B3AR) in cardiac myocytes and endothelial cells with a distinctive coupling and effect on cardiac function and remodelling introduced a new facet to this paradigm. In particular, B3AR is up-regulated in cardiac disease and less prone to homologous desensitization, which may reinforce its influence on the diseased myocardium. Mice with transgenic cardiac-specific expression of the human B3AR are protected from cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis in response to neurohormonal stimulation. B3AR has also been implicated in cardiac protection after ischaemia-reperfusion and the benefits of exercise on the heart. Many of these salvage mechanisms are mediated by B3AR coupling to nitric oxide synthase (eNOS and nNOS) and downstream cGMP/protein kinase G signalling. Notably, B3AR exerts antioxidant protective effects on these and other signalling elements, which may subserve its protective properties in the setting of chronic heart failure. Additional vasorelaxing properties and paracrine NO-mediated signalling by B3AR in endothelium, together with systemic metabolic effects on beige/brown fat complete the pleiotropic protective properties of this new therapeutic target.