---
reference_id: PMID:35053304
title: "Sympathetic Stimulation Upregulates the Ca2+ Channel Subunit, CaVα2δ1, via the β1 and ERK 1/2 Pathway in Neonatal Ventricular Cardiomyocytes."
authors:
- Al Katat A
- Zhao J
- Calderone A
- Parent L
journal: Cells
year: '2022'
doi: 10.3390/cells11020188
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:01:32+00:00'
---

# Sympathetic Stimulation Upregulates the Ca2+ Channel Subunit, CaVα2δ1, via the β1 and ERK 1/2 Pathway in Neonatal Ventricular Cardiomyocytes.
**Authors:** Al Katat A, Zhao J, Calderone A, Parent L
**Journal:** Cells (2022)
**DOI:** [10.3390/cells11020188](https://doi.org/10.3390/cells11020188)

## Content

Intracellular Ca2+ overload secondary to chronic hemodynamic stimuli promotes the recruitment of Ca2+-dependent signaling implicated in cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. The present study tested the hypothesis that sympathetic-mediated hypertrophy of neonatal rat ventricular cardiomyocytes (NRVMs) translated to an increase in calcium influx secondary to the upregulation of CaV1.2 channel subunits. Confocal imaging of norepinephrine (NE)-treated NRVMs revealed a hypertrophic response compared to untreated NRVMs. L-type CaV1.2 peak current density was increased 4-fold following a 24-h stimulation with NE. NE-treated NRVMs exhibited a significant upregulation of CaVα2δ1 and CaVβ3 protein levels without significant changes of CaVα1C and CaVβ2 protein levels. Pre-treatment with the β1-blocker metoprolol failed to inhibit hypertrophy or CaVβ3 upregulation whereas CaVα2δ1 protein levels were significantly reduced. NE promoted the phosphorylation of ERK 1/2, and the response was attenuated by the β1-blocker. U0126 pre-treatment suppressed NE-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation but failed to attenuate hypertrophy. U0126 inhibition of ERK1/2 phosphorylation prevented NE-mediated upregulation of CaVα2δ1, whereas CaVβ3 protein levels remained elevated. Thus, β1-adrenergic receptor-mediated recruitment of the ERK1/2 plays a seminal role in the upregulation of CaVα2δ1 in NRVMs independent of the concomitant hypertrophic response. However, the upregulation of CaVβ3 protein levels may be directly dependent on the hypertrophic response of NRVMs.