---
reference_id: PMID:12806611
title: "Infliximab but not etanercept induces apoptosis in lamina propria T-lymphocytes from patients with Crohn's disease."
authors:
- Van den Brande JM
- Braat H
- van den Brink GR
- Versteeg HH
- Bauer CA
- Hoedemaeker I
- van Montfrans C
- Hommes DW
- Peppelenbosch MP
- van Deventer SJ
journal: Gastroenterology
year: '2003'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-02T20:15:09+00:00'
---

# Infliximab but not etanercept induces apoptosis in lamina propria T-lymphocytes from patients with Crohn's disease.
**Authors:** Van den Brande JM, Braat H, van den Brink GR, Versteeg HH, Bauer CA, Hoedemaeker I, van Montfrans C, Hommes DW, Peppelenbosch MP, van Deventer SJ
**Journal:** Gastroenterology (2003)

## Content

**BACKGROUND & AIMS:** Steroid-refractory Crohn's disease responds to therapy with the chimeric anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha antibody infliximab. Etanercept, a recombinant TNF receptor/immunoglobulin G fusion protein, is highly effective in rheumatoid arthritis but not in Crohn's disease. Because both infliximab and etanercept are TNF-alpha-neutralizing drugs, we investigated the differences in TNF-alpha-neutralizing capacity and human lymphocyte binding and apoptosis-inducing capacity of both molecules.

**METHODS:** We used a nuclear factor kappaB reporter assay and a cytotoxicity bioassay to study TNF-alpha neutralization by infliximab and etanercept. Lymphocyte binding and apoptosis-inducing capacity was investigated using fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis, annexin V staining, and cleaved caspase-3 immunoblotting using mixed lymphocyte reaction-stimulated peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) from healthy volunteers and lamina propria T cells from patients with Crohn's disease.

**RESULTS:** Both infliximab and etanercept neutralized TNF-alpha effectively. Infliximab bound to activated PBL and lamina propria T cells, whereas binding of etanercept was equal to a nonspecific control antibody. Infliximab but not etanercept induced peripheral and lamina propria lymphocyte apoptosis when compared with a control antibody. Infliximab activated caspase 3 in a time-dependent manner, whereas etanercept did not.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Although both infliximab and etanercept showed powerful TNF-alpha neutralization, only infliximab was able to bind to PBL and lamina propria T cells and subsequently to induce apoptosis of activated lymphocytes. These data may provide a biological basis for the difference in efficacy of the 2 TNF-alpha-neutralizing drugs.