---
reference_id: PMID:19934303
title: Inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycin is required for optimal antitumor effect of HER2 inhibitors against HER2-overexpressing cancer cells.
authors:
- Miller TW
- Forbes JT
- Shah C
- Wyatt SK
- Manning HC
- Olivares MG
- Sanchez V
- Dugger TC
- de Matos Granja N
- Narasanna A
- Cook RS
- Kennedy JP
- Lindsley CW
- Arteaga CL
journal: "Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research"
year: '2009'
doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-09-1665
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:19:40+00:00'
---

# Inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycin is required for optimal antitumor effect of HER2 inhibitors against HER2-overexpressing cancer cells.
**Authors:** Miller TW, Forbes JT, Shah C, Wyatt SK, Manning HC, Olivares MG, Sanchez V, Dugger TC, de Matos Granja N, Narasanna A, Cook RS, Kennedy JP, Lindsley CW, Arteaga CL
**Journal:** Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research (2009)
**DOI:** [10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-09-1665](https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-09-1665)

## Content

**PURPOSE:** A significant fraction of HER2-overexpressing breast cancers exhibit resistance to the HER2 antibody trastuzumab. Hyperactivity of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT pathway confers trastuzumab resistance, and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a major downstream effector of PI3K/AKT. Therefore, we examined whether mTOR inhibitors synergize with trastuzumab.

**EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN:** Immunocompetent mice bearing HER2(+) mammary tumors were treated with trastuzumab, the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin, or the combination. Mice were imaged for tumor cell death using an optical Annexin-V probe and with [(18)F]FDG positron emission tomography. The signaling and growth effects of the mTOR inhibitor RAD001 on HER2(+) cells treated with trastuzumab or lapatinib were evaluated.

**RESULTS:** Treatment of mice with trastuzumab plus rapamycin was more effective than single-agent treatments, inducing complete regression of 26 of 26 tumors. The combination induced tumor cell death (Annexin-V binding) and inhibited FDG uptake. Rapamycin inhibited mTOR and tumor cell proliferation as determined by phosphorylated S6 and Ki-67 immunohistochemistry, respectively. In culture, the combination of RAD001 plus trastuzumab inhibited cell growth more effectively than either drug alone. Trastuzumab partially decreased PI3K but not mTOR activity. Knockdown of TSC2 resulted in HER2-independent activation of mTOR and dampened the response to trastuzumab and lapatinib. Treatment with the HER2 inhibitor lapatinib decreased phosphorylated S6 and growth in TSC2-expressing cells but not in TSC2-knockdown cells.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Inhibition of PI3K and mTOR are required for the growth-inhibitory effect of HER2 antagonists. These findings collectively support the combined use of trastuzumab and mTOR inhibitors for the treatment of HER2(+) breast cancer.