---
reference_id: PMID:37581618
title: "Targeting BCAA metabolism to potentiate metformin's therapeutic efficacy in the treatment of diabetes in mice."
authors:
- Zhao X
- Zhang X
- Pei J
- Liu Y
- Niu W
- Sun H
journal: Diabetologia
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1007/s00125-023-05985-6
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:39:14+00:00'
---

# Targeting BCAA metabolism to potentiate metformin's therapeutic efficacy in the treatment of diabetes in mice.
**Authors:** Zhao X, Zhang X, Pei J, Liu Y, Niu W, Sun H
**Journal:** Diabetologia (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s00125-023-05985-6](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00125-023-05985-6)

## Content

**AIMS/HYPOTHESIS:** An increasing body of evidence has shown that the catabolism of branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs; leucine, isoleucine and valine) is impaired in obese animals and humans, contributing to the development of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. Promoting BCAA catabolism benefits glycaemic control. It remains unclear whether BCAA catabolism plays a role in the therapeutic efficacy of currently used glucose-lowering drugs such as metformin.

**METHODS:** Mice were treated with vehicle or metformin (250 mg/kg per day) for more than 4 weeks to investigate the effects of metformin in vivo. In vitro, primary mouse hepatocytes and HepG2 cells were treated with 2 mmol/l metformin. The therapeutic efficacy of metformin in the treatment of type 2 diabetes was assessed in genetically obese (ob/ob) mice and high-fat-diet-induced obese (DIO) mice. Enhancing BCAA catabolism was achieved with a pharmacological agent, 3,6-dichlorobenzo[b]thiophene-2-carboxylic acid (BT2). The ob/ob mice were treated with a low-BCAA diet or intermittent protein restriction (IPR) to reduce BCAA nutritional intake.

**RESULTS:** Metformin unexpectedly inhibited the catabolism of BCAAs in obese mice, resulting in an elevation of BCAA abundance. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) mediated the impact of metformin on BCAA catabolism in hepatocytes. Importantly, enhancing BCAA catabolism via a pharmacological agent BT2 significantly potentiated the glucose-lowering effect of metformin while decreasing circulating BCAA levels in ob/ob and DIO mice. Similar outcomes were achieved by a nutritional approach of reducing BCAA intake. IPR also effectively reduced the circulating BCAA abundance and enhanced metformin's glucose-lowering effect in ob/ob mice. BT2 and IPR treatments reduced the expression of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase 1, a rate-limiting enzyme in gluconeogenesis, in the kidney but not liver, indicating the involvement of renal gluconeogenesis.

**CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION:** Metformin self-limits its therapeutic efficacy in the treatment of type 2 diabetes by triggering the suppression of BCAA catabolism. Enhancing BCAA catabolism pharmacologically or reducing BCAA intake nutritionally potentiates the glucose-lowering effect of metformin. These data highlight the nutritional impact of protein on metformin's therapeutic efficacy and provide new strategies targeting BCAA metabolism to improve metformin's effects on the clinical outcome in diabetes.