---
reference_id: PMID:34904537
title: "Platelet response to aspirin in UK and Irish pregnancy cohorts: a genome-wide approach."
authors:
- Mone F
- Gupta JK
- Phelan MM
- Meher S
- Lian LY
- Francis B
- Zhang E
- Mulcahy C
- Alfirevic A
- Mcauliffe FM
- Navaratnam K
journal: Platelets
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1080/09537104.2021.2007872
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-05-19T19:15:44+00:00'
---

# Platelet response to aspirin in UK and Irish pregnancy cohorts: a genome-wide approach.
**Authors:** Mone F, Gupta JK, Phelan MM, Meher S, Lian LY, Francis B, Zhang E, Mulcahy C, Alfirevic A, Mcauliffe FM, Navaratnam K
**Journal:** Platelets (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1080/09537104.2021.2007872](https://doi.org/10.1080/09537104.2021.2007872)

## Content

A multi-center prospective cross-sectional and genome-wide association study (GWAS) recruited pregnant women taking low dose aspirin. Objectives were to (i) develop pregnancy-specific 95% reference intervals for a range of laboratory based platelet function tests (PFTs); (ii) select an optimal and acceptable PFT that reflected aspirin's COX-1 inhibition in women with confirmed aspirin adherence in pregnancy; and (iii) identify genomic variants that may influence pregnant women's platelet response to aspirin.The study included two independent cohorts of pregnant women. A range of PFTs and matched phenotyping with urinary 11-dehydrothromboxane B2 (11DTXB2) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy detection of urinary salicyluric acid as a measure of aspirin adherence were performed. Genome-wide data was acquired from the UK Biobank Axiom® (Thermo Fisher Scientific). 11DTXB2 in combination with adherence testing with NMR salicyluric acid was an accurate and acceptable testing strategy for detecting biochemical aspirin responsiveness in pregnant women, with the provision of relevant reference ranges. GWAS meta-analysis found no significant single nucleotide polymorphisms in association with response to aspirin in pregnancy. Further evaluation in relation to effective dosing of aspirin in pregnancy and optimizing the benefits to specific subgroups should now be a priority for future research.