---
reference_id: PMID:32791885
title: The Intrinsic Activity of Thyroxine Is Critical for Survival and Growth and Regulates Gene Expression in Neonatal Liver.
authors:
- Galton VA
- Martinez ME
- Dragon JA
- St Germain DL
- Hernandez A
journal: "Thyroid : official journal of the American Thyroid Association"
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1089/thy.2020.0508
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:39:20+00:00'
---

# The Intrinsic Activity of Thyroxine Is Critical for Survival and Growth and Regulates Gene Expression in Neonatal Liver.
**Authors:** Galton VA, Martinez ME, Dragon JA, St Germain DL, Hernandez A
**Journal:** Thyroid : official journal of the American Thyroid Association (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1089/thy.2020.0508](https://doi.org/10.1089/thy.2020.0508)

## Content

Background: Thyroxine (T4) is generally considered to be a prohormone that requires conversion to triiodothyronine (T3) to exert biological activity. Although evidence suggests that T4 has intrinsic activity, it is questionable if this activity has any physiological relevance. Methods: To answer this question, triple knockout (KO) mice (Triples) that cannot express the types 1 (D1) and 2 (D2) deiodinase and the Pax8 genes were generated. Thus, they lack a thyroid and cannot convert T4 to T3. Triples were injected on alternate days with either vehicle or physiological doses of T4, T3, or T3+T4 from postnatal days 2-14. They were euthanized at P15, and RNA-seq was employed to profile gene expression in the liver. In another experiment, Pax8KO mice were injected with T3, T4, or T4+T3, and growth rate and survival to P84 were determined. Results: The growth retardation of Triples was not improved by either T3 or T4 alone but was significantly improved by T4+T3. In the liver, T4 significantly regulated the expression of genes that were also regulated by T3, but the proportion of genes that were negatively regulated was higher in mice treated with T4 than in mice treated with T3. Treatment with T4+T3 identified genes that were regulated synergistically by T3 and T4, and genes that were regulated only by T4+T3. Analysis of these genes revealed enrichment in mechanisms related to cell proliferation and cholesterol physiology, suggesting a unique contribution of T4 to these biological functions. Pax8KO mice all survived to P84 when injected with T4 or T4+T3. However, survival rate with T3 was only 50% and 10% at 3.5 and 12 weeks of life, respectively. Conclusions: T4 has intrinsic activity in vivo and is critical for survival and growth. At a physiological level, T4 per se can upregulate or downregulate many T3 target genes in the neonatal liver. While most of these genes are also regulated by T3, subsets respond exclusively to T4 or demonstrate enhanced or normalized expression only in the presence of both hormones. These studies demonstrate for the first time a complex dependency on both T4 and T3 for normal mammalian growth and development.