---
reference_id: PMID:38914753
title: Type I interferon pathway in pediatric systemic lupus erythematosus.
authors:
- Zhou Y
- Song HM
journal: "World journal of pediatrics : WJP"
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1007/s12519-024-00811-4
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:27:19+00:00'
---

# Type I interferon pathway in pediatric systemic lupus erythematosus.
**Authors:** Zhou Y, Song HM
**Journal:** World journal of pediatrics : WJP (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s12519-024-00811-4](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12519-024-00811-4)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** The role of type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) has been well established. However, unanswered questions remain regarding the applicability of these findings to pediatric-onset SLE. The aim of this review is to provide an overview of the novel discoveries on IFN-I signaling in pediatric-onset SLE.

**DATA SOURCES:** A literature search was conducted in the PubMed database using the following keywords: "pediatric systemic lupus erythematosus" and "type I interferon".

**RESULTS:** IFN-I signaling is increased in pediatric SLE, largely due to the presence of plasmacytoid dendritic cells and pathways such as cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes-TANK-binding kinase 1 and Toll-like receptor (TLR)4/TLR9. Neutrophil extracellular traps and oxidative DNA damage further stimulate IFN-I production. Genetic variants in IFN-I-related genes, such as IFN-regulatory factor 5 and tyrosine kinase 2, are linked to SLE susceptibility in pediatric patients. In addition, type I interferonopathies, characterized by sustained IFN-I activation, can mimic SLE symptoms and are thus important to distinguish. Studies on interferonopathies also contribute to exploring the pathogenesis of SLE. Measuring IFN-I activation is crucial for SLE diagnosis and stratification. Both IFN-stimulated gene expression and serum IFN-α2 levels are common indicators. Flow cytometry markers such as CD169 and galectin-9 are promising alternatives. Anti-IFN therapies, such as sifalimumab and anifrolumab, show promise in adult patients with SLE, but their efficacy in pediatric patients requires further investigation. Janus kinase inhibitors are another treatment option for severe pediatric SLE patients.

**CONCLUSIONS:** This review presents an overview of the IFN-I pathway in pediatric SLE. Understanding the intricate relationship between IFN-I and pediatric SLE may help to identify potential diagnostic markers and targeted therapies, paving the way for improved patient care and outcomes.