---
reference_id: PMID:31035951
title: Hsa_circ_0005379 regulates malignant behavior of oral squamous cell carcinoma through the EGFR pathway.
authors:
- Su W
- Wang Y
- Wang F
- Sun S
- Li M
- Shen Y
- Yang H
journal: BMC cancer
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1186/s12885-019-5593-5
retracted: true
corrections_in:
- 37461003
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:18:42+00:00'
---

# Hsa_circ_0005379 regulates malignant behavior of oral squamous cell carcinoma through the EGFR pathway.
**Authors:** Su W, Wang Y, Wang F, Sun S, Li M, Shen Y, Yang H
**Journal:** BMC cancer (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1186/s12885-019-5593-5](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12885-019-5593-5)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is an oral and maxillofacial malignancy with a high incidence worldwide. Accumulating evidence indicates that circular RNAs (circRNAs) play a vital role in modulating tumor development. However, the mechanism of circRNA action in human OSCC remains largely unknown.

**METHODS:** By using high-throughput transcriptome sequencing technology, we conducted a comprehensive study of circRNAs in human OSCC. The effect of circRNA hsa_circ_0005379 on OSCC tissues and cell lines was monitored by qRT-PCR, Transwell assay, flow cytometry, and western blot analysis. Xenograft mouse models were used to assess tumor growth and animal survival.

**RESULTS:** We found that circRNA hsa_circ_0005379 expression is significantly lower in OSCC tissue compared to paired non-cancerous matched tissue and is associated with tumor size and differentiation. Overexpression of hsa_circ_0005379 effectively inhibits migration, invasion, and proliferation of OSCC cells in vitro and suppresses OSCC growth in nude mice in vivo. Mechanistic studies revealed that hsa_circ_0005379 may be involved in the regulation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) pathway. Furthermore, we found that high expression of hsa_circ_0005379 could significantly enhance the sensitivity of OSCC to the cetuximab drug.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Our findings provide evidence that hsa_circ_0005379 regulates OSCC malignancy and may be a new therapeutic target for OSCC treatment.