---
reference_id: PMID:36463715
title: "Genetic mutations underlying isoniazid-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan."
authors:
- Khan AS
- Phelan JE
- Khan MT
- Ali S
- Qasim M
- Mohammad N
- Napier G
- Ahmad S
- Alam J
- Khattak B
- Campino S
- Clark TG
- Khan TA
journal: "Tuberculosis (Edinburgh, Scotland)"
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1016/j.tube.2022.102286
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:19:02+00:00'
---

# Genetic mutations underlying isoniazid-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.
**Authors:** Khan AS, Phelan JE, Khan MT, Ali S, Qasim M, Mohammad N, Napier G, Ahmad S, Alam J, Khattak B, Campino S, Clark TG, Khan TA
**Journal:** Tuberculosis (Edinburgh, Scotland) (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.tube.2022.102286](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tube.2022.102286)

## Content

Tuberculosis, caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, is a major public health issue in Pakistan. Isoniazid is a first-line pro-drug that requires activation through an enzyme called catalase peroxidase, but is subject to widespread resistance, driven by mutations in katG and inhA genes and other loci with compensatory effects (e.g., ahpC). Here, we used whole genome sequencing data from 51 M. tuberculosis isolates collected from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (years 2016-2019; all isoniazid phenotypically resistant) to investigate the genetic diversity of mutations in isoniazid candidate genes. The most common mutations underlying resistance were katG S315T (37/51), fabG1 -15C>T (13/51; inhA promoter), and inhA -154G>A (7/51). Other less common mutations (n < 5) were also identified in katG (R128Q, V1A, W505*, A109T, D311G) and candidate compensatory genes ahpC (-54C>T, -51G>A) and oxyS (M249T). Using DynaMut2 software, the mutants exhibited various degrees of stability and flexibility on protein structures, with some katG mutations leading to a decrease in KatG protein flexibility. Overall, the characterisation of circulating isoniazid resistant-linked mutations will assist in drug resistant TB management and control activities in a highly endemic area of Pakistan.