---
reference_id: PMID:29574147
title: Revisiting available knowledge on teleostean thyroid hormone receptors.
authors:
- Lazcano I
- Orozco A
journal: General and comparative endocrinology
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2018.03.022
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:41:02+00:00'
---

# Revisiting available knowledge on teleostean thyroid hormone receptors.
**Authors:** Lazcano I, Orozco A
**Journal:** General and comparative endocrinology (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.ygcen.2018.03.022](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ygcen.2018.03.022)

## Content

Teleosts are the most numerous class of living vertebrates. They exhibit great diversity in terms of morphology, developmental strategies, ecology and adaptation. In spite of this diversity, teleosts conserve similarities at molecular, cellular and endocrine levels. In the context of thyroidal systems, and as in the rest of vertebrates, thyroid hormones in fish regulate development, growth and metabolism by actively entering the nucleus and interacting with thyroid hormone receptors, the final sensors of this endocrine signal, to regulate gene expression. In general terms, vertebrates express the functional thyroid hormone receptors alpha and beta, encoded by two distinct genes (thra and thrb, respectively). However, different species of teleosts express thyroid hormone receptor isoforms with particular structural characteristics that confer singular functional traits to these receptors. For example, teleosts contain two thra genes and in some species also two thrb; some of the expressed isoforms can bind alternative ligands. Also, some identified isoforms contain deletions or large insertions that have not been described in other vertebrates and that have not yet been functionally characterized. As in amphibians, the regulation of some of these teleost isoforms coincides with the climax of metamorphosis and/or life transitions during development and growth. In this review, we aimed to gain further insights into thyroid signaling from a comparative perspective by proposing a systematic nomenclature for teleost thyroid hormone receptor isoforms and summarize their particular functional features when the information was available.