---
reference_id: PMID:32165725
title: Contribution of neuronal calcium sensor 1 (Ncs-1) to anxiolytic-like and social behavior mediated by valproate and Gsk3 inhibition.
authors:
- Magno LAV
- Tenza-Ferrer H
- Collodetti M
- Nicolau ES
- Khlghatyan J
- "Del'Guidice T"
- Romano-Silva MA
- Beaulieu JM
journal: Scientific reports
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-61248-z
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:18:00+00:00'
---

# Contribution of neuronal calcium sensor 1 (Ncs-1) to anxiolytic-like and social behavior mediated by valproate and Gsk3 inhibition.
**Authors:** Magno LAV, Tenza-Ferrer H, Collodetti M, Nicolau ES, Khlghatyan J, Del'Guidice T, Romano-Silva MA, Beaulieu JM
**Journal:** Scientific reports (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41598-020-61248-z](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-61248-z)

## Content

Peripheral biomarker and post-mortem brains studies have shown alterations of neuronal calcium sensor 1 (Ncs-1) expression in people with bipolar disorder or schizophrenia. However, its engagement by psychiatric medications and potential contribution to behavioral regulation remains elusive. We investigated the effect on Ncs-1 expression of valproic acid (VPA), a mood stabilizer used for the management of bipolar disorder. Treatment with VPA induced Ncs-1 gene expression in cell line while chronic administration of this drug to mice increased both Ncs-1 protein and mRNA levels in the mouse frontal cortex. Inhibition of histone deacetylases (HDACs), a known biochemical effect of VPA, did not alter the expression of Ncs-1. In contrast, pharmacological inhibition or genetic downregulation of glycogen synthase kinase 3β (Gsk3β) increased Ncs-1 expression, whereas overexpression of a constitutively active Gsk3β had the opposite effect. Moreover, adeno-associated virus-mediated Ncs-1 overexpression in mouse frontal cortex caused responses similar to those elicited by VPA or lithium in tests evaluating social and mood-related behaviors. These findings indicate that VPA increases frontal cortex Ncs-1 gene expression as a result of Gsk3 inhibition. Furthermore, behavioral changes induced by Ncs-1 overexpression support a contribution of this mechanism in the regulation of behavior by VPA and potentially other psychoactive medications inhibiting Gsk3 activity.