---
reference_id: PMID:38429754
title: "Clopidogrel with indobufen or aspirin in minor ischemic stroke or high-risk transient ischemic attack: a randomized controlled clinical study."
authors:
- Liu X
- Lv X
- Peng Y
- Wang J
- Lei J
- Tang C
- Luo S
- Mai W
- Cai Y
- Fan Q
- Liu C
- Zhang L
journal: BMC neurology
year: '2024'
doi: 10.1186/s12883-024-03585-4
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-05-19T19:14:48+00:00'
---

# Clopidogrel with indobufen or aspirin in minor ischemic stroke or high-risk transient ischemic attack: a randomized controlled clinical study.
**Authors:** Liu X, Lv X, Peng Y, Wang J, Lei J, Tang C, Luo S, Mai W, Cai Y, Fan Q, Liu C, Zhang L
**Journal:** BMC neurology (2024)
**DOI:** [10.1186/s12883-024-03585-4](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12883-024-03585-4)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Ischemic stroke and transient ischemic attack (TIA) are the most prevalent cerebrovascular diseases. The conventional antiplatelet drugs are associated with an inherent bleeding risk, while indobufen is a new antiplatelet drug and has the similar mechanism of antiplatelet aggregation as aspirin with more safety profile. However, there have been no studies evaluating the combination therapy of indobufen and clopidogrel for antiplatelet therapy in cerebrovascular diseases.

**OBJECTIVE:** The CARMIA study aims to investigate the effectiveness and safety of a new dual antiplatelet therapy consisting of indobufen and clopidogrel comparing with the conventional dual antiplatelet therapy consisting of aspirin and clopidogrel in patients with minor ischemic stroke or high-risk TIA.

**METHODS:** An open-label randomized controlled clinical trial was conducted at a clinical center. We randomly assigned patients who had experienced a minor stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) within 72 h of onset, or within 1 month if they had intracranial stenosis (IS), to receive either indobufen 100 mg twice daily or aspirin 100 mg once daily for 21 days. For patients with IS, the treatment duration was extended to 3 months. All patients received a loading dose of 300 mg clopidogrel orally on the first day, followed by 75 mg once daily from the second day to 1 year. We collected prospective data using paper-based case report forms, and followed up on enrolled patients was conducted to assess the incidence of recurrent ischemic stroke or TIA, mRS score, NIHSS (National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale) score, and any bleeding events occurring within 3 month after onset.

**RESULTS:** We enrolled 202 patients diagnosed with ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack. After applying the criteria, 182 patients were eligible for data analysis. Endpoint events (recurrence of ischemic stroke/TIA, myocardial infarction, or death) were observed in 6 patients (6.5%) receiving aspirin and clopidogrel, including 4 (4.3%) with stroke recurrence, 1 (1.1%) with TIA recurrence, and 1 (1%) with death. In contrast, no endpoint events were reported in the indobufen and clopidogrel group (P = 0.029). The group of patients receiving indobufen and clopidogrel exhibited significantly lower modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score. (scores range from 0 to 6, with higher scores indicating more severe disability) compared to the aspirin and clopidogrel group (common odds ratio 3.629, 95% CI 1.874-7.036, P < 0.0001). Although the improvement rate of NIHSS score in the indobufen and clopidogrel group was higher than that in the aspirin and clopidogrel group, the difference was not statistically significant (P > 0.05). Bleeding events were observed in 8 patients (8.6%) receiving aspirin and clopidogrel, including 4 (4.3%) with skin bleeding, 2 (2.2%) with gingival bleeding, 1 (1.1%) with gastrointestinal bleeding, and 1 (1.1%) with urinary system bleeding. On the other hand, only 1 patient (1.1%) in the indobufen and clopidogrel group experienced skin bleeding (P = 0.035).

**CONCLUSION:** The combination of indobufen and clopidogrel has shown non-inferior and potentially superior effectiveness and safety compared to aspirin combined with clopidogrel in patients with minor ischemic stroke and high-risk TIA in the CARMIA study (registered under chictr.org.cn with registration number ChiCTR2100043087 in 01/02/2021).