---
reference_id: PMID:41520617
title: Discovery of 1-(4-cyanopyrimidin-2-yl)-1H-pyrazole-4-carboxylic acids as potent xanthine oxidase inhibitors via molecular cleavage and reassembly of allopurinol as a key strategy.
authors:
- Wang H
- Li J
- Liu T
- Song Q
- Li Q
- Mao Q
- Fu X
- Dai X
- Wang J
- Shi X
- Zhang B
- Zhu Y
- Zhang T
journal: Bioorganic chemistry
year: '2026'
doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2026.109481
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:52:33+00:00'
---

# Discovery of 1-(4-cyanopyrimidin-2-yl)-1H-pyrazole-4-carboxylic acids as potent xanthine oxidase inhibitors via molecular cleavage and reassembly of allopurinol as a key strategy.
**Authors:** Wang H, Li J, Liu T, Song Q, Li Q, Mao Q, Fu X, Dai X, Wang J, Shi X, Zhang B, Zhu Y, Zhang T
**Journal:** Bioorganic chemistry (2026)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.bioorg.2026.109481](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bioorg.2026.109481)

## Content

Xanthine oxidase (XO) is a critical target for the treatment of hyperuricemia and gout. In this work, we employed a structural exploration of allopurinol via a molecular cleavage and reassembly strategy, leading to the development of 1-(4-cyanopyrimidin-2-yl)-1H-pyrazole-4-carboxylic acid derivatives as novel XO inhibitors. Structure-activity relationship analysis demonstrated that the coexistence of a polar group (e.g., OH or NH) at the 6-position of the pyrimidine and an amino group at the 5-position of the pyrazole plays a critical role for the XO inhibitory potency. Notably, the optimized compound B33 exhibited the highest XO inhibitory activity, with an IC50 value of 0.0034 μM, indicating an approximately two-fold improvement compared to febuxostat (IC50 = 0.0066 μM). Enzyme kinetic assay suggested that compound B33 exhibited a mixed-type inhibition mode toward XO. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations reveal that the Ser876 forms a hydrogen bond with the NH group of B33, serving as a novel anchor residue. Furthermore, in vivo hypouricemic studies demonstrated that compound B33 significantly reduced serum uric acid level by 51.9% in mice following an oral dose of 5 mg/kg. Finally, in silico methods were employed to evaluate the drug-like properties of compound B33. Collectively, these findings demonstrate the value of the 1-(4-cyanopyrimidin-2-yl)-1H-pyrazole-4-carboxylic acid scaffold in designing non-purine XO inhibitors and identify compound B33 as a promising lead for developing anti-hyperuricemia agents.