---
reference_id: PMID:19567515
title: Effects of growth hormone and free fatty acids on insulin sensitivity in patients with type 1 diabetes.
authors:
- Salgin B
- Marcovecchio ML
- Williams RM
- Jackson SJ
- Bluck LJ
- Humphreys SM
- Acerini CL
- Dunger DB
journal: The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism
year: '2009'
doi: 10.1210/jc.2009-0378
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:44:05+00:00'
---

# Effects of growth hormone and free fatty acids on insulin sensitivity in patients with type 1 diabetes.
**Authors:** Salgin B, Marcovecchio ML, Williams RM, Jackson SJ, Bluck LJ, Humphreys SM, Acerini CL, Dunger DB
**Journal:** The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism (2009)
**DOI:** [10.1210/jc.2009-0378](https://doi.org/10.1210/jc.2009-0378)

## Content

**CONTEXT:** Because GH stimulates lipolysis, an increase in circulating free fatty acid levels, as opposed to a direct effect of high GH levels, could underlie the development of insulin resistance in type 1 diabetes (T1D). Our aim was to explore the relative contributions of GH and free fatty acids to the development of insulin resistance in patients with T1D.

**PATIENTS:** Seven (four females, three males) nonobese patients with T1D aged 21-30 yr were studied on four occasions in random order. On each visit, overnight endogenous GH production was suppressed by octreotide. Three 1-h pulses of recombinant human GH (rhGH) or placebo were administered on two visits each. Acipimox, an antilipolytic drug, or a placebo were ingested every 4 h on two visits each. Stable glucose and glycerol isotopes were used to assess glucose and glycerol turnover. The overnight protocol was concluded by a two-step hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp on each visit.

**MAIN OUTCOME:** rhGH administration led to increases in the insulin infusion rate required to maintain euglycemia overnight (P = 0.008), elevated basal endogenous glucose production (P = 0.007), decreased basal peripheral glucose uptake (P = 0.03), and reduced glucose uptake during step 1 of the clamp (P < 0.0001). Coadministration of rhGH and acipimox reversed these effects and suppression of lipolysis in the absence of GH replacement led to further increases in insulin sensitivity.

**RESULTS:** GH pulses were associated with an increase in endogenous glucose production and decreased rates of peripheral glucose uptake, which was entirely reversed by acipimox. Therefore, GH-driven decreases in insulin sensitivity are mainly determined by the effect of GH on lipolysis.