---
reference_id: PMID:33601000
title: Myricetin inhibits TNF-α-induced inflammation in A549 cells via the SIRT1/NF-κB pathway.
authors:
- Chen M
- Chen Z
- Huang D
- Sun C
- Xie J
- Chen T
- Zhao X
- Huang Y
- Li D
- Wu B
- Wu D
journal: "Pulmonary pharmacology & therapeutics"
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1016/j.pupt.2021.102000
corrections_in:
- 33863645
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:30:25+00:00'
---

# Myricetin inhibits TNF-α-induced inflammation in A549 cells via the SIRT1/NF-κB pathway.
**Authors:** Chen M, Chen Z, Huang D, Sun C, Xie J, Chen T, Zhao X, Huang Y, Li D, Wu B, Wu D
**Journal:** Pulmonary pharmacology & therapeutics (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.pupt.2021.102000](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pupt.2021.102000)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Although myricetin exerts anti-inflammation, anti-cancer, and anti-oxidation effects, the relationship between myricetin and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) -stimulated inflammation in A549 cells remains unclear. This study sought to assess whether myricetin has an anti-inflammatory effect on TNF-α-induced A549 cells and clarify the potential mechanisms.

**METHODS:** Cell viability was examined with a Cell Counting Kit-8, and cytokine levels were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and reverse transcription-quantitative PCR. Potential mechanisms were further explored by western blotting, immunofluorescence, and SIRT1 activity assays.

**RESULTS:** In A549 cells, TNF-α stimulation upregulated the production of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-8 (IL-8). Moreover, TNF-α activated the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) pathway, as confirmed by IκB-α degradation, and phosphorylation and nuclear migration of NF-κB p65. However, pretreatment with myricetin significantly attenuated the observed responses triggered by TNF-α. Mechanistically, myricetin strongly increased the deacetylase activity through decreasing phosphorylation, but not expression, of sirtuin-1 (SIRT1) in TNF-α-stimulated A549 cells. Myricetin-mediated SIRT1 activation was further evidenced by the decreased acetylation of NF-κB p65 and p53. Subsequently, all of these concurrent changes were reversed by the addition of salermide (SIRT1 inhibitor), illustrating the critical role of SIRT1 in mediation of anti-inflammatory processes by myricetin.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Myricetin, an enhancer of SIRT1, inhibited TNF-α-induced NF-κB activation in A549 cells, therefore, reducing their inflammatory response. Our findings provide insight for novel therapies for inflammation-related diseases, such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.