---
reference_id: PMID:26953155
title: "Interfering with baffled B cells at the lupus tollway: Promises, successes, and failed expectations."
authors:
- Singh N
- Kumar B
- Aluri V
- Lenert P
journal: The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1016/j.jaci.2015.12.1326
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:26:46+00:00'
---

# Interfering with baffled B cells at the lupus tollway: Promises, successes, and failed expectations.
**Authors:** Singh N, Kumar B, Aluri V, Lenert P
**Journal:** The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jaci.2015.12.1326](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaci.2015.12.1326)

## Content

B cells play an important role in systemic lupus erythematosus by acting not only as precursors of autoantibody-producing cells but also as antigen-presenting, cytokine-secreting, and regulatory cells. Unopposed activation of B cells through their B-cell receptor for antigen, as seen in B cells lacking Lyn kinase, results in systemic autoimmunity. The B-cell activating factor of the TNF family (BAFF), nucleic acid-sensing Toll-like receptors (TLRs), and type I interferon can affect B-cell survival and decrease their threshold for activation. Herein we discuss both direct and indirect strategies aimed at targeting B cells in patients with lupus by blocking BAFF, type I interferon, or TLR7 to TLR9. Although BAFF-depleting therapy with belimumab achieved approval for lupus, other BAFF inhibitors were much less beneficial in clinical trials. Inhibitors of the B-cell receptor for antigen signaling and antibodies against type I interferon are in the pipeline. The TLR7 to TLR9 blocker hydroxychloroquine has been in use in patients with lupus for more than 50 years, but oligonucleotide-based inhibitors of TLR7 to TLR9, despite showing promise in animal models of lupus, have not reached the primary end point in a recent phase 1 trial. These data point toward possible redundancies in B-cell signaling/survival pathways, which must be better understood before future clinical trials are executed.