---
reference_id: PMID:3903519
title: Aspirin causes short-lived inhibition of bradykinin-stimulated prostacyclin production in man.
authors:
- Heavey DJ
- Barrow SE
- Hickling NE
- Ritter JM
journal: Nature
year: '1985'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-02T20:15:26+00:00'
---

# Aspirin causes short-lived inhibition of bradykinin-stimulated prostacyclin production in man.
**Authors:** Heavey DJ, Barrow SE, Hickling NE, Ritter JM
**Journal:** Nature (1985)

## Content

Acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) inhibits prostanoid synthesis by irreversible acetylation of fatty acid cyclooxygenase (EC 1.14.99.1). It thereby inhibits synthesis of pro-aggregatory thromboxane A2 (TXA2) by platelets and is widely used in the treatment and prophylaxis of vascular disease. Its efficacy, however, may be reduced since it also inhibits formation of prostacyclin (PGI2) which is a vasodilator and anti-aggregatory agent. There is uncertainty over the optimum dose regimen for aspirin since although it inhibits platelet thromboxane production for many days, the magnitude and duration of its effect on PGI2 production by vascular endothelium in vivo is unknown. Resting plasma concentrations of PGI2 (measured as the stable hydrolysis product 6-oxo-PGF1 alpha) are at or below the limit of sensitivity of the most sensitive assays and cannot therefore be used to demonstrate a reduction in production. Bradykinin stimulates PGI2 synthesis by cultured human vascular endothelial cells and we have shown that it stimulates PGI2 production by man in vivo. We report here that an oral dose of aspirin (600 mg) causes rapid and substantial inhibition of bradykinin-stimulated PGI2 production, but recovery occurs within 6 hours; this implies that endothelial PGI2 synthesis would be spared most of the time during dosing once daily with even this relatively large dose of aspirin.