---
reference_id: PMID:16736236
title: "L-DOPA inhibits depolarization-induced [3H]GABA release in the dopamine-denervated globus pallidus of the rat: the effect is dopamine independent and mediated by D2-like receptors."
authors:
- Silva I
- Cortes H
- Escartín E
- Rangel C
- Florán L
- Erlij D
- Aceves J
- Florán B
journal: "Journal of neural transmission (Vienna, Austria : 1996)"
year: '2006'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:18:26+00:00'
---

# L-DOPA inhibits depolarization-induced [3H]GABA release in the dopamine-denervated globus pallidus of the rat: the effect is dopamine independent and mediated by D2-like receptors.
**Authors:** Silva I, Cortes H, Escartín E, Rangel C, Florán L, Erlij D, Aceves J, Florán B
**Journal:** Journal of neural transmission (Vienna, Austria : 1996) (2006)

## Content

The effect of L-DOPA on [(3)H]GABA release in slices of globus pallidus from 6-OHDA-lesioned rats was studied. Release was evoked by high (15 mM) K(+). The lesion reduced dopamine content and dopamine synthesized from L-DOPA. The inhibition of DOPA decarboxylase blocked dopamine synthesis. Endogenous dopamine released by high K(+) inhibited [(3)H]GABA release in normal but not in lesioned slices. L-DOPA inhibited (IC(50) = 0.44 microM) evoked [(3)H]GABA release. The inhibition was via D2-like receptors but not mediated by dopamine. The turning behavior induced by L-DOPA methyl ester (25 mg/kg, i.p.) was not abolished by the DOPA decarboxylase inhibitor 3-hydroxybenzylhydrazine but in this condition it was abolished by sulpiride. Results suggest that L-DOPA acting as D2-like agonist inhibits GABA release in the rat globus pallidus and induces turning behavior in rats with unilateral lesions of the dopamine innervation. L-DOPA could control Parkinson's disease symptoms acting not only as dopamine precursor but also by itself.