---
reference_id: PMID:26521872
title: "[Role of Human Orphan Esterases in Drug-induced Toxicity]."
authors:
- Fukami T
journal: "Yakugaku zasshi : Journal of the Pharmaceutical Society of Japan"
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1248/yakushi.15-00186
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:42:10+00:00'
---

# [Role of Human Orphan Esterases in Drug-induced Toxicity].
**Authors:** Fukami T
**Journal:** Yakugaku zasshi : Journal of the Pharmaceutical Society of Japan (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1248/yakushi.15-00186](https://doi.org/10.1248/yakushi.15-00186)

## Content

Esterases hydrolyze compounds containing ester, amide, and thioester bonds, causing prodrug activation or detoxification. Among esterases, carboxylesterases have been studied in depth due to their ability to hydrolyze a variety of drugs. However, there are several drugs for which the involved esterase(s) is unknown. We found that flutamide, phenacetin, rifamycins (rifampicin, rifabutin, and rifapentine), and indiplon are hydrolyzed by arylacetamide deacetylase (AADAC), which is highly expressed in human liver and gastrointestinal tissues. Flutamide hydrolysis is considered associated with hepatotoxicity. Phenacetin, a prodrug of acetaminophen, was withdrawn due to side effects such as methemoglobinemia and renal failure. It was demonstrated in vitro and in vivo using mice that AADAC is responsible for phenacetin hydrolysis, which leads to methemoglobinemia. In addition, it was shown that AADAC-mediated hydrolysis attenuates the cytotoxicity of rifamycins. Thus AADAC plays critical roles in drug-induced toxicity. Another orphan esterase, α/β hydrolase domain containing 10 (ABHD10), was found responsible for deglucuronidation of acyl-glucuronides including mycophenolic acid acyl-glucuronide and probenecid acyl-glucuronide. Because acyl-glucuronides appear associated with toxicity, ABHD10 would function as a detoxification enzyme. The roles of orphan esterases are becoming increasingly understood. Further studies will facilitate our knowledge of the pharmacologic and toxicological significance of orphan esterases in drug therapy.