---
reference_id: PMID:37541591
title: Amplified inhibition of atherosclerotic plaque-induced platelet activation by glenzocimab with dual antiplatelet therapy.
authors:
- Alenazy FO
- Harbi MH
- Kavanagh DP
- Price J
- Brady P
- Hargreaves O
- Harrison P
- Slater A
- Tiwari A
- Nicolson PLR
- Connolly DL
- Kirchhof P
- Kalia N
- Jandrot-Perrus M
- Mangin PH
- Watson SP
- Thomas MR
journal: "Journal of thrombosis and haemostasis : JTH"
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1016/j.jtha.2023.07.018
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-05-19T19:14:45+00:00'
---

# Amplified inhibition of atherosclerotic plaque-induced platelet activation by glenzocimab with dual antiplatelet therapy.
**Authors:** Alenazy FO, Harbi MH, Kavanagh DP, Price J, Brady P, Hargreaves O, Harrison P, Slater A, Tiwari A, Nicolson PLR, Connolly DL, Kirchhof P, Kalia N, Jandrot-Perrus M, Mangin PH, Watson SP, Thomas MR
**Journal:** Journal of thrombosis and haemostasis : JTH (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jtha.2023.07.018](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtha.2023.07.018)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Aspirin and platelet P2Y12 inhibitors, such as ticagrelor, suboptimally inhibit microvascular thrombosis during ST-elevation myocardial infarction. Glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa inhibitors may further inhibit this but cause excessive bleeding.

**OBJECTIVES:** We investigated whether combination of glenzocimab, a GPVI inhibitor, with aspirin and ticagrelor provides additional antithrombotic effects, as GPVI has a critical role in atherothrombosis but minimal involvement in hemostasis.

**METHODS:** We investigated the effects of glenzocimab (monoclonal antibody Fab fragment) using blood from healthy donors and patients with acute coronary syndrome treated with aspirin and ticagrelor. Platelets were stimulated with multiple agonists, including atherosclerotic plaque, from patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy.

**RESULTS:** Aspirin and ticagrelor partially inhibited atherosclerotic plaque-induced platelet aggregation by 48% compared with control (34 ± 3 vs 65 ± 4 U; P < .001). Plaque-induced platelet aggregation, adhesion, secretion, and activation were critically dependent on GPVI activation. Glenzocimab alone reduced plaque-induced aggregation by 75% compared with control (16 ± 4 vs 65 ± 4 U; P < .001) and by >95% when combined with aspirin and ticagrelor (3 ± 1 vs 65 ± 4 U; P < .001). Glenzocimab reduced platelet aggregation, adhesion, and thrombin generation when added to blood of aspirin- and ticagrelor-treated patients with acute coronary syndrome. Glenzocimab shared several antithrombotic effects with the GPIIb/IIIa inhibitor eptifibatide with less effect on general hemostasis assessed by rotational thromboelastometry. In a murine intravital model of ST-elevation myocardial infarction, genetic depletion of GPVI reduced microvascular thrombosis.

**CONCLUSION:** Addition of glenzocimab to aspirin and ticagrelor enhances platelet inhibition via multiple mechanisms of atherothrombosis. Compared with a GPIIb/IIIa inhibitor, glenzocimab shares multiple antithrombotic effects, with less inhibition of mechanisms involved in general hemostasis.