---
reference_id: PMID:41570583
title: Discovery and mechanistic insights of novel Piperlongumine analogs as potent Bcr-Abl kinase inhibitors.
authors:
- Zhang G
- Long X
- Yang X
- Li C
- Meng J
- Zheng Y
- Ren F
- Wang Z
journal: Bioorganic chemistry
year: '2026'
doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2026.109508
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:00:25+00:00'
---

# Discovery and mechanistic insights of novel Piperlongumine analogs as potent Bcr-Abl kinase inhibitors.
**Authors:** Zhang G, Long X, Yang X, Li C, Meng J, Zheng Y, Ren F, Wang Z
**Journal:** Bioorganic chemistry (2026)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.bioorg.2026.109508](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bioorg.2026.109508)

## Content

In the exploration and discovery of potential anticancer candidates with novel mechanisms of action, a series of novel piperlongumine (PL) analogs was designed and synthesized. The majority of compounds demonstrated significant anti-proliferative effects in vitro, particularly with the 2-Cl analogs C1-C16. Notably, compound C5 exhibited the most potent anti-proliferative activity against K562 cells (IC50 = 0.11 μM). Inspiringly, C5 was also found to selectively enhance the accumulation of ROS and induce apoptosis. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) primarily encompassed apoptotic, PI3K/AKT signaling pathways, and other associated information. Molecular docking results revealed that C5 exhibited robust hydrogen bond interactions with specific amino acid residues in the Imatinib-Bcr-AblWT and Ponatinib-Bcr-AblT315I protein kinase models, suggesting a plausible binding model based on the docking scores. The findings suggest that C5 exhibits promising potential as a highly efficacious for an anti-leukemia agent, thereby providing a valuable avenue for further exploration and application.