---
reference_id: PMID:42188321
title: Fucoidan Oligosaccharides from Kjellmaniella crassifolia Ameliorate Ulcerative Colitis by Regulating the TLR4 and NF-κB Signaling Pathway and Modulating Gut Microbiota.
authors:
- Xu Z
- Jia Z
- Li L
- Zeng F
- Sun J
- Ma Y
- Shi W
- Liu S
- He Y
- Wang Q
- Ren D
journal: Marine drugs
year: '2026'
doi: 10.3390/md24050186
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:28:53+00:00'
---

# Fucoidan Oligosaccharides from Kjellmaniella crassifolia Ameliorate Ulcerative Colitis by Regulating the TLR4 and NF-κB Signaling Pathway and Modulating Gut Microbiota.
**Authors:** Xu Z, Jia Z, Li L, Zeng F, Sun J, Ma Y, Shi W, Liu S, He Y, Wang Q, Ren D
**Journal:** Marine drugs (2026)
**DOI:** [10.3390/md24050186](https://doi.org/10.3390/md24050186)

## Content

Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a form of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which is marked by severe abdominal pain, weight loss, perianal bleeding, and diarrhea. This study successfully isolated and purified four low-molecular-weight fucoidan oligosaccharides through acid hydrolysis and Bio Gel P10 gel filtration. The molecular weights were 2.9 × 104-1.36 × 105 Da, 182-1012 Da, 161-939 Da and 161-939 Da, respectively. A mouse model of colitis was induced using Dextran Sulfate Sodium (DSS). The results indicated that fucoidan and fucoidan oligosaccharides could ameliorate murine ulcerative colitis, with the oligosaccharides (200 mg/kg/d) demonstrating superior therapeutic effects. This superiority was likely attributed to the lower molecular weight and higher content of total sugars and fucose. The primary mechanisms involved the modulation of gene and protein expression levels associated with the Toll-like receptor 4, Myeloid differentiation primary response 88, nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells, p65, and Inhibitor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B cells, alpha (TLR4, MYD88, NF-κB p65, and IκB-α) signaling pathways, which reduce the production of inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha, Interleukin-1 beta and Interleukin-6 (TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6). Additionally, these oligosaccharides alleviated oxidative stress, enhanced the levels of intestinal barrier proteins (Claudin family member 4 and Zonula occludens protein 1), regulated the abundance and diversity of the gut microbiota, and increased the levels of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) in the intestine. It is worth emphasizing that this study can only demonstrate that fucoidan oligosaccharides have a mitigating effect on intestinal inflammation in mice. Further research is needed in the future to investigate the structure-activity relationship of fucoidan oligosaccharides and their impact on human intestinal microbiota, in order to further elucidate their anti-inflammatory mechanisms.