---
reference_id: PMID:39547446
title: Distinct gene expression patterns of mono-isoniazid resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis uncover divergent responses to isoniazid in host-mimicked condition.
authors:
- Phyo Z
- Yimcharoen M
- Saikaew S
- Butr-Indr B
journal: Microbial pathogenesis
year: '2025'
doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2024.107109
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:19:24+00:00'
---

# Distinct gene expression patterns of mono-isoniazid resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis uncover divergent responses to isoniazid in host-mimicked condition.
**Authors:** Phyo Z, Yimcharoen M, Saikaew S, Butr-Indr B
**Journal:** Microbial pathogenesis (2025)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.micpath.2024.107109](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micpath.2024.107109)

## Content

Isoniazid stands as a frontline antibiotic utilized in the treatment of tuberculosis (TB), predominantly impacting the mycolic acid component within the cell wall of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). It also affects the formation of lipoarabinomannan (LAM), an essential glycolipid in the cell envelope of Mtb. Despite the effectiveness of antibiotics for TB treatment, drug tolerance development in mycobacteria frequently stems from their adaptation to the hostile environment within the host, leading to treatment failure. Herein, we investigate mycobacterial adaptation to the isoniazid exposure in the host-mimicked conditions by focusing on the stress response genes (virS, icl1, whiB3, tgs1) and LAM-related genes (lprG, p55, lmeA, mptA, embC). Mtb H37Rv and mono-isoniazid resistant (INH-R) strains were cultivated in the host-mimicked multi-stress condition (MS) with or without isoniazid and the relative expressions of these gene candidates were measured using real-time PCR. In the INH-R strain, treatment with isoniazid in multi-stress conditions caused significant upregulation of tgs1, and LAM precursor-lipomannan (LM) synthesis and its transport genes (lprG, p55, lmeA, embC). In the case of H37Rv, all LAM-related genes and tgs1 were downregulated whereas other stress response genes were upregulated, remarkably in icl1 and whiB3. These findings highlight differences in gene expression patterns between drug-sensitive and resistant strains in multi-stress environments with drug pressure. Notably, stress response genes, particularly tgs1, may play a crucial role in regulating LAM production in the INH-R strain in response to isoniazid exposure. This study enhances our understanding of the mechanisms underlying drug resistance, offering valuable insights that could contribute to the development of new strategies for treating and eliminating TB.