---
reference_id: PMID:41684130
title: GPR108 Negatively Regulates TLR7 Signaling in Imiquimod-Induced Psoriasiform Dermatitis.
authors:
- Wang W
- Zhang Y
- Liao K
- Xiang Q
- Zang D
- Cai C
- Zhou F
- Zhou H
journal: "Immunity, inflammation and disease"
year: '2026'
doi: 10.1002/iid3.70346
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:39:04+00:00'
---

# GPR108 Negatively Regulates TLR7 Signaling in Imiquimod-Induced Psoriasiform Dermatitis.
**Authors:** Wang W, Zhang Y, Liao K, Xiang Q, Zang D, Cai C, Zhou F, Zhou H
**Journal:** Immunity, inflammation and disease (2026)
**DOI:** [10.1002/iid3.70346](https://doi.org/10.1002/iid3.70346)

## Content

**OBJECTIVE:** Psoriasis, a common chronic inflammatory skin disease, is characterized by epidermal hyperplasia and inflammatory cell infiltration. While endosomal Toll-like receptors (TLRs), particularly TLR7, are key drivers of psoriatic exacerbations, the regulatory mechanisms governing TLR7 activity in psoriasis remain incompletely understood. This study aims to investigate the role of G protein-coupled receptor 108 (GPR108) in regulating TLR7 activity during imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasiform dermatitis.

**METHODS:** We established IMQ-induced psoriasiform lesions in Gpr108-null mice, as well as IMQ-treated GPR108-deficient keratinocyte and macrophage models. The psoriasis-like phenotype was assessed in vivo using PASI scoring and H&E staining. Protein expression was examined by Western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence. Additionally, RNA-seq and flow cytometric analyses were performed to verify the involvement of the TLR7/NF-κB signaling in regulating GPR108-deficient macrophage polarization.

**RESULTS:** We found that Gpr108 deficiency exacerbates IMQ-induced psoriatic lesions in mice. Mechanistically, GPR108 deficiency enhances TLR7/MyD88/NF-κB signaling in both keratinocytes and macrophages following imiquimod stimulation. This increased TLR7 activation promotes keratinocyte hyperproliferation and dysregulated differentiation, and alters the M1/M2 macrophage balance, leading to elevated production of cytokines, including TNF-α and IL-6.

**CONCLUSION:** GPR108 functions as a negative regulator of TLR7 signaling in psoriasis.