---
reference_id: PMID:36305632
title: Eupatilin inhibits keratinocyte proliferation and ameliorates imiquimod-induced psoriasis-like skin lesions in mice via the p38 MAPK/NF-κB signaling pathway.
authors:
- Bai D
- Cheng X
- Li Q
- Zhang B
- Zhang Y
- Lu F
- Sun T
- Hao J
journal: Immunopharmacology and immunotoxicology
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1080/08923973.2022.2121928
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:40:39+00:00'
---

# Eupatilin inhibits keratinocyte proliferation and ameliorates imiquimod-induced psoriasis-like skin lesions in mice via the p38 MAPK/NF-κB signaling pathway.
**Authors:** Bai D, Cheng X, Li Q, Zhang B, Zhang Y, Lu F, Sun T, Hao J
**Journal:** Immunopharmacology and immunotoxicology (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1080/08923973.2022.2121928](https://doi.org/10.1080/08923973.2022.2121928)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease that is currently incurable and causes long-term distress to patients. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop safe and effective psoriatic drugs. Eupatilin is a natural flavone, that has a variety of pharmacological effects. However, the anti-psoriatic effect of eupatilin and its underlying mechanism remain unclear.

**METHODS:** HaCaT cells were treated with 20 μg/mL LPS for 24 h to establish the proliferation model of HaCaT cells. Cell viability was measured by MTT assay. Western blotting was used to detect the expression of p-p38 MAPK, p38 MAPK, p-NF-κB p65 and NF-κB p65 in HaCaT cells. Imiquimod (IMQ) was used to induce psoriasis-like mouse model. Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI) score was used to evaluate the degree of skin injury, H&E staining was used to observe the pathological damage of skin tissues, and the expression levels of TNF-α, IL-6, IL-23 and IL-17 in the serum were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).

**RESULTS:** Eupatilin could inhibit the hyperproliferation of LPS-stimulated HaCaT cells through p38 MAPK/NF-κB signaling pathway in vitro. In psoriatic mice, eupatilin could significantly reduce skin erythema, scales and thickening scores, ameliorate skin histopathological lesions, and decrease the levels of TNF-α, IL-6, IL-23 and IL-17 in the serum.

**CONCLUSION:** Eupatilin had a good anti-proliferative effect in LPS-stimulated HaCaT cells, and significantly alleviated IMQ-induced psoriasis-like lesions in mice. Eupatilin was a promising drug for the treatment of psoriasis.