---
reference_id: PMID:23778361
title: Connective tissue growth factor/CCN2 attenuates β-adrenergic receptor responsiveness and cardiotoxicity by induction of G protein-coupled receptor kinase-5 in cardiomyocytes.
authors:
- Gravning J
- Ahmed MS
- Qvigstad E
- Krobert K
- Edvardsen T
- Moe IT
- Hagelin EM
- Sagave J
- Valen G
- Levy FO
- Osnes JB
- Skomedal T
- Attramadal H
journal: Molecular pharmacology
year: '2013'
doi: 10.1124/mol.113.087312
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:01:33+00:00'
---

# Connective tissue growth factor/CCN2 attenuates β-adrenergic receptor responsiveness and cardiotoxicity by induction of G protein-coupled receptor kinase-5 in cardiomyocytes.
**Authors:** Gravning J, Ahmed MS, Qvigstad E, Krobert K, Edvardsen T, Moe IT, Hagelin EM, Sagave J, Valen G, Levy FO, Osnes JB, Skomedal T, Attramadal H
**Journal:** Molecular pharmacology (2013)
**DOI:** [10.1124/mol.113.087312](https://doi.org/10.1124/mol.113.087312)

## Content

Myocardial connective tissue growth factor (CTGF/CCN2) is induced in heart failure, a condition associated with diminution of β-adrenergic receptor (β-AR) responsiveness. Accordingly, we aimed to investigate whether CTGF could play a mechanistic role in regulation of β-AR responsiveness. Concentration-response curves of isoproterenol-stimulated cAMP generation in cardiomyocytes from transgenic mice with cardiac-restricted overexpression of CTGF (Tg-CTGF) or cardiomyocytes pretreated with recombinant human CTGF (rec-hCTGF) revealed marked reduction of both β₁-AR and β₂-AR responsiveness. Consistently, ventricular muscle strips from Tg-CTGF mice stimulated with isoproterenol displayed attenuation of maximal inotropic responses. However, no differences of maximal inotropic responses of myocardial fibers from Tg-CTGF mice and nontransgenic littermate control (NLC) mice were discerned when stimulated with supramaximal concentrations of dibutyryl-cAMP, indicating preserved downstream responsiveness to cAMP. Congruent with a mechanism of desensitization of β-ARs, mRNA and protein levels of G protein-coupled receptor kinase 5 (GRK5) were found isoform-selective upregulated in both cardiomyocytes from Tg-CTGF mice and cardiomyocytes exposed to rec-hCTGF. Corroborating a mechanism of GRK5 in CTGF-mediated control of β-AR sensitivity, Chinese hamster ovary cells pretreated with rec-hCTGF displayed increased agonist- and biased ligand-stimulated β-arrestin binding to β-ARs. Despite increased sensitivity of cardiomyocytes from GRK5-knockout (KO) mice to β-adrenergic agonists, pretreatment of GRK5-KO cardiomyocytes with rec-hCTGF, as opposed to cardiomyocytes from wild-type mice, did not alter β-AR responsiveness. Finally, Tg-CTGF mice subjected to chronic exposure (14 days) to isoproterenol revealed blunted myocardial hypertrophy and preserved cardiac function versus NLC mice. In conclusion, this study uncovers a novel mechanism controlling β-AR responsiveness in cardiomyocytes involving CTGF-mediated regulation of GRK5.