---
reference_id: PMID:36384391
title: Multiple COVID reinfections in a vaccinated psoriatic patient receiving adalimumab.
authors:
- Zargari O
- Azimi SZ
journal: The Journal of dermatological treatment
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1080/09546634.2022.2149237
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:38:57+00:00'
---

# Multiple COVID reinfections in a vaccinated psoriatic patient receiving adalimumab.
**Authors:** Zargari O, Azimi SZ
**Journal:** The Journal of dermatological treatment (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1080/09546634.2022.2149237](https://doi.org/10.1080/09546634.2022.2149237)

## Content

Currently, psoriasis patients are advised to follow their standard therapeutic regimen, and are advised to be vaccinated against Covid-19. However, the data about the antibody responses, induced by the various kinds of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines in psoriasis patients who require systemic immunosuppressive treatment is scant. In this case report, we describe antibody responses induced by COVID-19 vaccine, in a 26-year-old male patient with psoriasis being treated with anti-TNF biotherapy, adalimumab biosimilar every two weeks. The patient was vaccinated against COVID-19, according to the national protocol. He experienced three episodes of symptomatic COVID-19. His first and second exposures did not result in antibody production. After the third episode of COVID-19, The SARS-CoV-2 anti-spike antibody (IgG) was more than 100 Ru/mL (ELISA; ≥8 Ru/mL is considered positive), and SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibody (total) was more than 40 micg/mL (ELISA; ≥2.5 micg/mL is considered positive). This is the first case with weak antibody response to vaccination and multiple episodes of COVID infection in a psoriatic patient with adalimumab biosimilar. However, we cannot assume causality due to the treatment.