---
reference_id: PMID:8758931
title: Activation of Src kinases p53/56lyn and p59hck by p210bcr/abl in myeloid cells.
authors:
- Danhauser-Riedl S
- Warmuth M
- Druker BJ
- Emmerich B
- Hallek M
journal: Cancer research
year: '1996'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-02T20:15:38+00:00'
---

# Activation of Src kinases p53/56lyn and p59hck by p210bcr/abl in myeloid cells.
**Authors:** Danhauser-Riedl S, Warmuth M, Druker BJ, Emmerich B, Hallek M
**Journal:** Cancer research (1996)

## Content

Chronic myeloid leukemia is characterized by the Philadelphia (Ph1) translocation t(9;22) that generates a hybrid gene, bcr/abl, translated to a Mr210,000 tyrosine kinase (p210bcr/abl) with transforming activity for hematopoietic cells. Hematopoietic cell transformation by p2l0bcr/abl seems to involve activation of the Ras signaling pathway by at least two different signaling intermediates, growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 and Src homology and collagen protein, but additional signaling proteins are likely to be required as well. In an effort to identify additional phosphoproteins activated by p210bcr/abl, we studied the murine, interleukin 3-dependent, myeloid cell line, 32D, and a bcr/abl-transfected, factor-independent subline, 32Dp210. The analysis of whole-cell lysates of 32D and 32Dp210 cells showed that several proteins with a molecular weight of Mr50,000-60,000 were phosphorylated on tyrosine residues in 32Dp210 cells. Because Src family kinases have an apparent molecular weight of Mr50,000-60,000, we asked whether they could become activated by p2l0bcr/abl. Two Src family kinases, p53/56lyn and p59hck, showed a severalfold higher phosphokinase activity in 32Dp210 cells than in 32D cells. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments with anti-Lyn, anti-Hck, and anti-Abl antibodies demonstrated an intracellular association of p210bcr/abl with p53/56lyn and p59hck. Moreover, the phosphokinase activity of p53/56lyn was higher in bcr/abl-positive myeloid cell lines (K562, BV173, and LAMA84) than in the bcr/abl-negative myeloid cell line JOSK-M. In conclusion, the results show that p210bcr/abl induces the activation of at least two Src family kinases, P53/56lyn and p59hck, in myeloid cells. These findings extend the range of potential targets of p210bcr/abl that might mediate its transforming effects.