---
reference_id: PMID:37428003
title: Novel antibiotic susceptibility of an RNA polymerase α-subunit mutant in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
authors:
- Cai W
- Lu M
- Dai W
journal: The Journal of antimicrobial chemotherapy
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1093/jac/dkad207
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:22:12+00:00'
---

# Novel antibiotic susceptibility of an RNA polymerase α-subunit mutant in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
**Authors:** Cai W, Lu M, Dai W
**Journal:** The Journal of antimicrobial chemotherapy (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1093/jac/dkad207](https://doi.org/10.1093/jac/dkad207)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** RNA polymerase (RNAP) is highly conserved and essential for prokaryotic housekeeping activities, making it an important target for the development of new antibiotics. The rpoB gene, encoding a β-subunit of bacterial RNAP, has a well-known association with rifampicin resistance. However, the roles of other RNAP component genes such as rpoA, encoding an α-subunit of RNAP, in antibiotic resistance remain unexplored.

**OBJECTIVES:** To characterize the antibiotic resistance-related role of RpoA.

**METHODS:** We measured the expression of the MexEF-OprN efflux pump in an RpoA mutant using a transcriptional reporter. The MICs of various antibiotics for this RpoA mutant were determined.

**RESULTS:** We uncover a novel role of antibiotic susceptibility for an RpoA mutant in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We found that a single amino acid substitution in RpoA resulted in reduced activity of the MexEF-OprN efflux pump, which is responsible for the exportation of various antibiotics, including ciprofloxacin, chloramphenicol, ofloxacin and norfloxacin. This attenuated efflux pump activity, caused by the RpoA mutation, conferred the bacteria further susceptibility to antibiotics regulated by MexEF-OprN. Our work further revealed that certain clinical P. aeruginosa isolates also contained the same RpoA mutation, providing clinical relevance to our findings. Our results elucidate why this new antibiotic-susceptible function of RpoA mutants would have remained undetected in conventional screens for mutants involving antibiotic resistance.

**CONCLUSIONS:** The discovery of antibiotic susceptibility in an RpoA mutant implicates a new therapeutic approach for treating clinical isolates of P. aeruginosa with RpoA mutations, using specific antibiotics regulated by MexEF-OprN. More generally, our work suggests that RpoA could serve as a promising candidate target for anti-pathogen therapeutic purposes.