---
reference_id: PMID:18752570
title: Aspirin and the in vitro linear relationship between thromboxane A2-mediated platelet aggregation and platelet production of thromboxane A2.
authors:
- Armstrong PC
- Truss NJ
- Ali FY
- Dhanji AA
- Vojnovic I
- Zain ZN
- Bishop-Bailey D
- Paul-Clark MJ
- Tucker AT
- Mitchell JA
- Warner TD
journal: "Journal of thrombosis and haemostasis : JTH"
year: '2008'
doi: 10.1111/j.1538-7836.2008.03133.x
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-05-19T20:39:13+00:00'
---

# Aspirin and the in vitro linear relationship between thromboxane A2-mediated platelet aggregation and platelet production of thromboxane A2.
**Authors:** Armstrong PC, Truss NJ, Ali FY, Dhanji AA, Vojnovic I, Zain ZN, Bishop-Bailey D, Paul-Clark MJ, Tucker AT, Mitchell JA, Warner TD
**Journal:** Journal of thrombosis and haemostasis : JTH (2008)
**DOI:** [10.1111/j.1538-7836.2008.03133.x](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1538-7836.2008.03133.x)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Currently, 'aspirin resistance', the anti-platelet effects of non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and NSAID-aspirin interactions are hot topics of debate. It is often held in this debate that the relationship between platelet activation and thromboxane (TX) A(2) formation is non-linear and TXA(2) generation must be inhibited by at least 95% to inhibit TXA(2)-dependent aggregation. This relationship, however, has never been rigorously tested.

**OBJECTIVES:** To characterize, in vitro and ex vivo, the concentration-dependent relationships between TXA(2) generation and platelet activity.

**METHOD:** Platelet aggregation, thrombi adhesion and TXA(2) production in response to arachidonic acid (0.03-1 mmol L(-1)), collagen (0.1-30 microg mL(-1)), epinephrine (0.001-100 micromol L(-1)), ADP, TRAP-6 amide and U46619 (all 0.1-30 micromol L(-1)), in the presence of aspirin or vehicle, were determined in 96-well plates using blood taken from naïve individuals or those that had taken aspirin (75 mg, o.d.) for 7 days.

**RESULTS:** Platelet aggregation, adhesion and TXA(2) production induced by either arachidonic acid or collagen were inhibited in concentration-dependent manners by aspirin, with logIC(50) values that did not differ. A linear relationship existed between aggregation and TXA(2) production for all combinations of arachidonic acid or collagen and aspirin (P < 0.01; R(2) 0.92; n = 224). The same relationships were seen in combinations of aspirin-treated and naïve platelets, and in blood from individuals taking an anti-thrombotic dose of aspirin.

**CONCLUSIONS:** These studies demonstrate a linear relationship between inhibition of platelet TXA(2) generation and TXA(2)-mediated aggregation. This finding is important for our understanding of the anti-platelet effects of aspirin and NSAIDs, NSAID-aspirin interactions and 'aspirin resistance'.