---
reference_id: PMID:41357417
title: "In silico decoding strategic pathways inhibition by coptisine for halting Alzheimer's pathology: a mechanistic insight."
authors:
- Roy A
- Kumar D
- Bhattacharya P
- Borah A
journal: In silico pharmacology
year: '2025'
doi: 10.1007/s40203-025-00473-8
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:31:17+00:00'
---

# In silico decoding strategic pathways inhibition by coptisine for halting Alzheimer's pathology: a mechanistic insight.
**Authors:** Roy A, Kumar D, Bhattacharya P, Borah A
**Journal:** In silico pharmacology (2025)
**DOI:** [10.1007/s40203-025-00473-8](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40203-025-00473-8)

## Content

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a brain disorder with various neuropathological hallmarks and has become a major concern globally due to limited therapeutic options. Cholinergic dysfunction due to the depletion of acetylcholine (ACh) levels in the synapse caused by increased acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity is one of the major factors that drives AD progression. AChE also accelerates amyloid beta (Aβ) formation and leads to amyloid plaque deposition in the brain. Production of Aβ from amyloid precursor protein (APP) with sequential cleavage by β-secretase (BACE1) and γ-secretase causes severe brain damage due to plaque toxicity. Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), a neuronal catastrophe resulting from hyperphosphorylation of tau protein due to upregulation of glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) and downregulation of Wnt signaling because of Dickkopf-1 and low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 (DKK1-LRP6) interaction, are a major pathogenic event in AD. Recent research has increasingly focused on targeting amyloidopathy, tauopathy, and cholinergic pathways as therapeutic strategies for mitigating AD pathology. Coptisine, a bioactive alkaloid having enormous pharmacological properties, including neuroprotective action, is considered in our in-silico investigation. Collective inhibition of key targets in AD pathogenesis, like AChE, β-secretase (BACE1), γ-secretase, GSK3β, and DKK1-LRP6 interaction, could be a positive approach in the arsenal of Alzheimer's treatment. In this article, we report that coptisine can inhibit these five major targets as evident from our molecular docking study, and propose it as a potential multi-target drug to play a key role in halting AD pathology. Further, comparative analysis based on predicted values of cheminformatics and pharmacokinetic profiling of coptisine and known inhibitors increases its possibility to ameliorate AD. However, robust research, including a preclinical and clinical study on coptisine for its safety and efficacy assessment against AD pathology, is warranted for its validation as an anti-AD drug.