---
reference_id: PMID:35257901
title: Targeting BCR-Abl in the treatment of Philadelphia-chromosome positive chronic myelogenous leukemia.
authors:
- Roskoski R
journal: Pharmacological research
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2022.106156
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:00:59+00:00'
---

# Targeting BCR-Abl in the treatment of Philadelphia-chromosome positive chronic myelogenous leukemia.
**Authors:** Roskoski R
**Journal:** Pharmacological research (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.phrs.2022.106156](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phrs.2022.106156)

## Content

Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is an indolent malignant hematological disease that accounts for about 15% of all cases of leukemia. This disorder results from the formation of the Philadelphia chromosome that involves a reciprocal translocation that produces a lengthened chromosome 9 and shortened chromosome 22 - the Philadelphia chromosome. As a consequence of the translocation, the dysregulated BCR-Abl fusion oncoprotein is formed and it produces the abnormal proliferation of white blood cells. The treatment of CML with imatinib revolutionized the treatment of this disorder and led to the discovery and development of dozens of effective targeted protein kinase inhibitors. Imatinib (first generation), dasatinib, nilotinib, and bosutinib (second generation) have been FDA-approved for frontline therapy, and ponatinib (third generation) is approved for resistant disease with a T315I mutation. Each of these drugs is orally bioavailable. The BCR-Abl fusion protein lacks the physiological N-terminal myristoyl group that binds to a hydrophobic pocket in the large protein kinase lobe and inhibits enzyme activity. The absence of the myristoyl group leads to enhanced protein kinase catalytic activity. Asciminib was designed to bind to this binding pocket to reduce Abl kinase activity. Asciminib is orally effective and was FDA-approved as a third-line treatment for CML and a first-line treatment in patients with the T315I mutation. It blocks the activity of BCR-Abl by interacting with the myristate-binding site located 23 Å from the ATP-binding site and is the prototype of a type IV inhibitor. Asciminib is a so-called STAMP inhibitor that Specifically Targets the Abl Myristoyl Pocket.