---
reference_id: PMID:33758122
title: "Improving Outcomes in Cardiovascular Diseases: A Review on Vorapaxar."
authors:
- Chaudhary R
- Mohananey A
- Sharma SP
- Singh S
- Singh A
- Kondur A
journal: Cardiology in review
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1097/CRD.0000000000000390
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-05-19T19:14:46+00:00'
---

# Improving Outcomes in Cardiovascular Diseases: A Review on Vorapaxar.
**Authors:** Chaudhary R, Mohananey A, Sharma SP, Singh S, Singh A, Kondur A
**Journal:** Cardiology in review (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1097/CRD.0000000000000390](https://doi.org/10.1097/CRD.0000000000000390)

## Content

Antiplatelet agents are the standard of practice in the management of atherosclerosis and acute coronary syndrome. In contrast to the available antiplatelet agents, vorapaxar represents a novel mechanism of action. It is an antagonist of the platelet protease-activated receptor-1 and inhibits thrombin-induced and thrombin receptor agonist peptide-induced platelet aggregation. The Thrombin Receptor Antagonist in Secondary Prevention of Atherothrombotic Ischemic Events-Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 50 (TRA 2°P-TIMI 50) trial led to the approval of vorapaxar by the Food and Drug Administration and European Medicines Agency for the reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with a history of myocardial infarction (MI) or peripheral arterial disease. TRA 2°P-TIMI 50 trial showed that the use of vorapaxar (2.5 mg once/daily) in addition to standard dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and a P2Y12 receptor inhibitor was effective in the secondary prevention of recurrent thrombotic events among patients with previous atherothrombosis, particularly in patients with prior MI; at the expense of an increase in major bleeding. Another recently published Vorapaxar Therapy in Patients With Prior Myocardial Infarction Treated With Newer Generation P2Y12 Receptor Inhibitors Prasugrel and Ticagrelor (VORA-PRATIC) study showed that among post-MI patients treated with potent P2Y12 inhibitors (prasugrel or ticagrelor), vorapaxar reduced platelet-driven global thrombogenicity, an effect that persisted, albeit attenuated, in the absence of aspirin. The current review summarizes an up-to-date literature on pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and clinical efficacy of vorapaxar and proposes future directions of research.