---
reference_id: PMID:36241001
title: The specific deletion of cyclooxygenase-1 in megakaryocytes/platelets reduces intestinal polyposis in ApcMin/+ mice.
authors:
- Bruno A
- Contursi A
- Tacconelli S
- Sacco A
- Hofling U
- Mucci M
- Lamolinara A
- Del Pizzo F
- Ballerini P
- Di Gregorio P
- Yu Y
- Patrignani P
journal: Pharmacological research
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2022.106506
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-05-19T19:15:45+00:00'
---

# The specific deletion of cyclooxygenase-1 in megakaryocytes/platelets reduces intestinal polyposis in ApcMin/+ mice.
**Authors:** Bruno A, Contursi A, Tacconelli S, Sacco A, Hofling U, Mucci M, Lamolinara A, Del Pizzo F, Ballerini P, Di Gregorio P, Yu Y, Patrignani P
**Journal:** Pharmacological research (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.phrs.2022.106506](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phrs.2022.106506)

## Content

Clinical and experimental evidence sustain the role of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 in intestinal tumorigenesis. However, the cell type expressing the enzyme involved and molecular mechanism(s) have not been clarified yet. We aimed to elucidate the role of platelet COX-1 (the target of low-dose aspirin in humans) in intestinal tumorigenesis of ApcMin/+ mice, considered a clinically relevant model. To realize this objective, we generated an ApcMin/+ mouse with a specific deletion of Ptgs1(COX-1 gene name) in megakaryocytes/platelets (ApcMin/+;pPtgs1-/-mice) characterized by profound inhibition of thromboxane(TX)A2 biosynthesis ex vivo (serum TXB2; by 99%) and in vivo [urinary 2,3-dinor-TXB2(TXM), by 79%]. ApcMin/+ mice with the deletion of platelet COX-1 showed a significantly reduced number (67%) and size (32%) of tumors in the small intestine. The intestinal adenomas of these mice had decreased proliferative index associated with reduced COX-2 expression and systemic prostaglandin(PG)E2 biosynthesis (urinary PGEM) vs. ApcMin/+mice. Extravasated platelets were detected in the intestine of ApcMin/+mice. Thus, we explored their contribution to COX-2 induction in fibroblasts, considered the primary polyp cell type expressing the protein. In the coculture of human platelets and myofibroblasts, platelet-derived TXA2 was involved in the induction of COX-2-dependent PGE2 in myofibroblasts since it was prevented by the selective inhibition of platelet COX-1 by aspirin or by a specific antagonist of TXA2 receptors. In conclusion, our results support the platelet hypothesis of intestinal tumorigenesis and provide experimental evidence that selective inhibition of platelet COX-1 can mitigate early events of intestinal tumorigenesis by restraining COX-2 induction.