---
reference_id: PMID:31378637
title: "Type I interferon gene expression in antiphospholipid syndrome: Pathogenetic, clinical and therapeutic implications."
authors:
- Xourgia E
- Tektonidou MG
journal: Journal of autoimmunity
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2019.102311
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:26:45+00:00'
---

# Type I interferon gene expression in antiphospholipid syndrome: Pathogenetic, clinical and therapeutic implications.
**Authors:** Xourgia E, Tektonidou MG
**Journal:** Journal of autoimmunity (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jaut.2019.102311](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaut.2019.102311)

## Content

Type I Interferon gene expression has been shown to play an important role in the pathogenesis of several systemic autoimmune disorders, paving the way for its potential use as a surrogate marker or a therapeutic tool. While the concept of type I interferon signature and its correlation with clinical phenotypes and disease activity, along with anti-interferon targeted therapy have been vastly investigated in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, there is a paucity of data concerning antiphospholipid syndrome patients. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge on the pathogenetic and clinical implications of type I interferon expression in antiphospholipid syndrome and discuss the therapeutic possibility of targeting molecules along the interferon signaling pathway. A number of recent studies have shown a type I interferon gene expression induction in patients with primary antiphospholipid syndrome via the plasmacytoid dendritic cell pathway, toll like receptors (TLRs) such as TLR7 and TLR9, anti-beta2glycoprotein I antibody-mediated neutrophil activation and neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) release in a TLR4-dependent fashion, and a subsequent B cell and plasmablast activation. An association between type I interferon expression and several demographic, clinical and laboratory characteristics including age, gender, pregnancy complications such as eclampsia, anti-beta2glycoprotein I antibodies, and a negative correlation with hydroxychloroquine and/or statin use, has been shown. Correlation of high interferon scores to worse outcomes in prospective studies could direct the initiation for a prompt treatment in high-risk populations. Potential therapeutic approaches targeting type I interferon production and signaling pathway components might include anti-interferon or interferon receptor monoclonal antibodies, or an interferon based therapeutic vaccine as was indicated from previous systemic lupus erythematosus studies, TLR inhibitors including hydroxychloroquine and anti-TLR antibodies, plasmacytoid dendritic cell inhibition, adenosine-receptor agonists, and plasmablast targeting treatments. Well-designed studies are needed to further assess the immunomodulatory potential of the above targets for therapeutic intervention in patients with primary antiphospholipid syndrome.