---
reference_id: PMID:6285736
title: Mechanism of action and selectivity of acyclovir.
authors:
- Elion GB
journal: The American journal of medicine
year: '1982'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-02T20:15:31+00:00'
---

# Mechanism of action and selectivity of acyclovir.
**Authors:** Elion GB
**Journal:** The American journal of medicine (1982)

## Content

Acyclovir, an acrylic purine nucleoside analog, is a highly potent inhibitor of herpes simplex virus (HSV), types 1 and 2, and varicella zoster virus, and has extremely low toxicity for the normal host cells. This selectivity is due to the ability of these viruses to code for a viral thymidine kinase capable of phosphorylating acyclovir to a monophosphate; this capability is essentially absent in uninfected cells. The acyclovir monophosphate (acyclo-GMP) is subsequently converted to acyclovir triphosphate (acyclo-GTP) by cellular enzymes. Acyclo-GTP persists in HSV-infected cells for many hours after acyclovir is removed from the medium. The amounts of acyclo-GTP formed in HSV-infected cells are 40 to 100 times greater than in uninfected Vero cells. Acyclo-GTP acts as a more potent inhibitor of the viral DNA polymerases than of the cellular polymerases. The DNA polymerases of HSV-1 and HSV-2 also use acyclo-GTP as a substrate and incorporate acyclo-GMP into the DNA primer-template to a much greater extent than do the cellular enzymes. The viral DNA polymerase binds strongly to the acyclo-GMP-terminated template, and in thereby inactivated.