---
reference_id: PMID:21844189
title: Intracellular erythrocyte platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase I inactivates aspirin in blood.
authors:
- Zhou G
- Marathe GK
- Willard B
- McIntyre TM
journal: The Journal of biological chemistry
year: '2011'
doi: 10.1074/jbc.M111.267161
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-05-19T19:15:44+00:00'
---

# Intracellular erythrocyte platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase I inactivates aspirin in blood.
**Authors:** Zhou G, Marathe GK, Willard B, McIntyre TM
**Journal:** The Journal of biological chemistry (2011)
**DOI:** [10.1074/jbc.M111.267161](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M111.267161)

## Content

Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) prophylaxis suppresses major adverse cardiovascular events, but its rapid turnover limits inhibition of platelet cyclooxygenase activity and thrombosis. Despite its importance, the identity of the enzyme(s) that hydrolyzes the acetyl residue of circulating aspirin, which must be an existing enzyme, remains unknown. We find that circulating aspirin was extensively hydrolyzed within erythrocytes, and chromatography indicated these cells contained a single hydrolytic activity. Purification by over 1400-fold and sequencing identified the PAFAH1B2 and PAFAH1B3 subunits of type I platelet-activating factor (PAF) acetylhydrolase, a phospholipase A(2) with selectivity for acetyl residues of PAF, as a candidate for aspirin acetylhydrolase. Western blotting showed that catalytic PAFAH1B2 and PAFAH1B3 subunits of the type I enzyme co-migrated with purified erythrocyte aspirin hydrolytic activity. Recombinant PAFAH1B2, but not its family member plasma PAF acetylhydrolase, hydrolyzed aspirin, and PAF competitively inhibited aspirin hydrolysis by purified or recombinant erythrocyte enzymes. Aspirin was hydrolyzed by HEK cells transfected with PAFAH1B2 or PAFAH1B3, and the competitive type I PAF acetylhydrolase inhibitor NaF reduced erythrocyte hydrolysis of aspirin. Exposing aspirin to erythrocytes blocked its ability to inhibit thromboxane A(2) synthesis and platelet aggregation. Not all individuals or populations are equally protected by aspirin prophylaxis, the phenomenon of aspirin resistance, and erythrocyte hydrolysis of aspirin varied 3-fold among individuals, which correlated with PAFAH1B2 and not PAFAH1B3. We conclude that intracellular type I PAF acetylhydrolase is the major aspirin hydrolase of human blood.