---
reference_id: PMID:23422285
title: New direct and indirect methods for the detection of cyclooxygenase 1 acetylation by aspirin; the lack of aspirin resistance among healthy individuals.
authors:
- Kovács EG
- Katona E
- Bereczky Z
- Homoródi N
- Balogh L
- Tóth E
- Péterfy H
- Kiss RG
- Edes I
- Muszbek L
journal: Thrombosis research
year: '2013'
doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2013.01.033
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-05-19T19:15:43+00:00'
---

# New direct and indirect methods for the detection of cyclooxygenase 1 acetylation by aspirin; the lack of aspirin resistance among healthy individuals.
**Authors:** Kovács EG, Katona E, Bereczky Z, Homoródi N, Balogh L, Tóth E, Péterfy H, Kiss RG, Edes I, Muszbek L
**Journal:** Thrombosis research (2013)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.thromres.2013.01.033](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.thromres.2013.01.033)

## Content

**BACKGROUND:** Aspirin is widely used in the prevention of acute atherothrombotic complications. It acetylates Ser529 residue in cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) and prevents thromboxane A2 (TXA2) formation from arachidonic acid (AA) in platelets. Laboratory methods used for the detection of aspirin effect provide inconsistent results.

**METHODS:** Two new methods were developed for the direct and indirect detection of COX-1 acetylation by aspirin in 108 healthy volunteers treated daily with 100mg enteric-coated aspirin for 7days. Monoclonal antibodies were raised against acetylated and non-acetylated nonapeptides corresponding to the amino acid sequence of human COX-1 525-533 residues. Using Western blotting technique the antibodies clearly distinguished between acetylated and non-acetylated COX-1 in platelet lysate. The second method measures AA-induced TXB2 production of platelets in diluted platelet rich plasma.

**RESULTS:** No acetylated COX-1 was detected in platelets before aspirin treatment. At the same time antibodies raised against non-acetylated peptide gave intense reaction with COX-1 on the Western blot. In contrast, after 7days of aspirin treatment, with a single exception, only acetylated COX-1 could be detected in the platelet lysate. The non-responding volunteer showed full response to aspirin after controlled drug intake. In parallel experiments aspirin treatment for 7days practically completely inhibited AA-induced TXB2 production by platelets.

**CONCLUSIONS:** Chemical ("true") aspirin resistance, if it exists, must be a rarity among healthy individuals. The new methods could be used for detecting the acetylation of COX-1 by aspirin in patients on preventive aspirin therapy and for evaluating methods routinely used for such purpose.