---
reference_id: PMID:37817671
title: "Experimental study on physical exercise in diabetes: pathophysiology and therapeutic effects."
authors:
- Messina G
- Alioto A
- Parisi MC
- Mingrino O
- Di Corrado D
- Crescimanno C
- Kuliś S
- Nese Sahin F
- Padua E
- Canzone A
- Francavilla VC
journal: European journal of translational myology
year: '2023'
doi: 10.4081/ejtm.2023.11560
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:48:13+00:00'
---

# Experimental study on physical exercise in diabetes: pathophysiology and therapeutic effects.
**Authors:** Messina G, Alioto A, Parisi MC, Mingrino O, Di Corrado D, Crescimanno C, Kuliś S, Nese Sahin F, Padua E, Canzone A, Francavilla VC
**Journal:** European journal of translational myology (2023)
**DOI:** [10.4081/ejtm.2023.11560](https://doi.org/10.4081/ejtm.2023.11560)

## Content

Diabetes is a chronic disease. Some complications can be prevented, their effects can be slowed down.  Sedentary lifestyle increases the risk of obesity and consequently the predisposition to diabetes II. The article aimed to demonstrate the positive and negative effects of exercise on active and sedentary diabetics and on pathophysiology, evaluating the effects after 3 and 6 months. The study involved 90 participants, both male and female, with type II diabetes, aged 45, divided into two groups: Group A (n=50, sedentary) and Group B (n=40, active). We evaluated anthropometric parameters, blood chemistry values, which are fundamental for the transversal evaluation of the results. In group A improvements were less noticeable than group B. The most improved parameter is blood sugar, Glycemic values and BMI. Cholesterol and Hb1Ac decreased but more slowly than previous parameters. The expectations of the study were, not only in recognizing the therapeutic and preventive powers of exercise, but above all in choosing to program a motor protocol after a team work between diabetologist, sports doctor and kinesiologist and/ or personal trainer. Physical activity is an additional therapy to insulin.