---
reference_id: PMID:41093840
title: Deep mutational scanning of the human insulin receptor ectodomain to inform precision therapy for insulin resistance.
authors:
- Aslanzadeh V
- Brierley GV
- Kumar R
- Çubuk H
- Vigouroux C
- Matreyek KA
- Kudla G
- Semple RK
journal: Nature communications
year: '2025'
doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-64178-4
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:39:31+00:00'
---

# Deep mutational scanning of the human insulin receptor ectodomain to inform precision therapy for insulin resistance.
**Authors:** Aslanzadeh V, Brierley GV, Kumar R, Çubuk H, Vigouroux C, Matreyek KA, Kudla G, Semple RK
**Journal:** Nature communications (2025)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41467-025-64178-4](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-64178-4)

## Content

The insulin receptor entrains tissue growth and metabolism to nutritional conditions. Complete loss of function in humans leads to extreme insulin resistance and infantile mortality, while loss of 80-90% function permits longevity of decades. Even low-level activation of severely compromised receptors, for example by anti-receptor monoclonal antibodies, thus offers the potential for decisive clinical benefit. A barrier to genetic diagnosis and translational research is the increasing identification of variants of uncertain significance in the INSR gene, encoding the insulin receptor. By coupling saturation mutagenesis to flow-based assays, we stratified approximately 14,000 INSR extracellular missense variants by cell surface expression, insulin binding, and insulin- or monoclonal antibody-stimulated signalling. Resulting function scores correlate strongly with clinical syndromes, offer insights into dynamics of insulin binding, and reveal novel potential gain-of-function variants. This INSR sequence-function map has biochemical, diagnostic and translational utility, aiding rapid identification of variants amenable to activation by non-canonical INSR agonists.