---
reference_id: PMID:42115409
title: Cannabinoid CB2 receptor drives trastuzumab resistance and predicts durable anti-HER2 response.
authors:
- Seijo-Vila M
- Balsinde SA
- Blasco-Benito S
- Tundidor I
- Rubert-Hernández M
- Montero-Calle A
- Barderas R
- Kilpatrick LE
- Platt S
- Karsai N
- Philps I
- Antón OM
- Gómez-Domínguez D
- Pérez de Castro I
- González-Lois C
- García-Fresnadillo D
- Silvestre-Egea G
- Sánchez-López AJ
- Ramírez-Medina E
- Rivas Prieto MC
- Almoguera Pérez-Cejuela B
- Manso L
- Zazo S
- López-Ejeda N
- Palomino-Duque F
- Turienzo-Durán M
- Martínez-Illescas NG
- Salazar-Roa M
- Castillo-Lluva S
- Hill SJ
- Guzmán M
- Pérez-Gómez E
- Sánchez C
journal: Oncogene
year: '2026'
doi: 10.1038/s41388-026-03814-9
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T21:18:02+00:00'
---

# Cannabinoid CB2 receptor drives trastuzumab resistance and predicts durable anti-HER2 response.
**Authors:** Seijo-Vila M, Balsinde SA, Blasco-Benito S, Tundidor I, Rubert-Hernández M, Montero-Calle A, Barderas R, Kilpatrick LE, Platt S, Karsai N, Philps I, Antón OM, Gómez-Domínguez D, Pérez de Castro I, González-Lois C, García-Fresnadillo D, Silvestre-Egea G, Sánchez-López AJ, Ramírez-Medina E, Rivas Prieto MC, Almoguera Pérez-Cejuela B, Manso L, Zazo S, López-Ejeda N, Palomino-Duque F, Turienzo-Durán M, Martínez-Illescas NG, Salazar-Roa M, Castillo-Lluva S, Hill SJ, Guzmán M, Pérez-Gómez E, Sánchez C
**Journal:** Oncogene (2026)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41388-026-03814-9](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41388-026-03814-9)

## Content

Acquired or innate lack of response to standard HER2-targeted therapies remains a clinical issue in patients with HER2-positive breast cancer. Here, we investigated the role of the cannabinoid CB2 receptor (CB2R) in trastuzumab resistance. In human breast cancer samples, a decreased expression of HER2-CB2R heterodimers following neoadjuvant treatment, due to CB2R downregulation, was linked to poor long-term outcomes. Using various preclinical models, we demonstrate that CB2R drives trastuzumab resistance. Mechanistically, CB2R loss enabled cancer cells to evade antitumor IFN-γ signaling while promoting a shift from HER2-CB2R to HER2-EGFR heterodimers, thus reducing dependence on HER2 and increasing reliance on EGFR-mediated pathways. Moreover, EGFR inhibition restored trastuzumab sensitivity. In summary, we reveal an unprecedented role for CB2R as a key regulator of oncogenic and immune signaling in response to anti-HER2 therapy and its potential as a predictive biomarker of therapeutic efficacy. We also propose dual HER2/EGFR targeting and non-CB2R-selective cannabinoid therapies as potential strategies to overcome CB2R-mediated trastuzumab resistance. Together, these findings position the endocannabinoid system as a pivotal and actionable node to elucidate, anticipate, and counteract resistance to HER2-targeted therapies.