---
reference_id: PMID:38081939
title: Thyroid hormone-regulated chromatin landscape and transcriptional sensitivity of the pituitary gland.
authors:
- Cho YW
- Fu Y
- Huang CJ
- Wu X
- Ng L
- Kelley KA
- Vella KR
- Berg AH
- Hollenberg AN
- Liu H
- Forrest D
journal: Communications biology
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1038/s42003-023-05546-y
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:43:11+00:00'
---

# Thyroid hormone-regulated chromatin landscape and transcriptional sensitivity of the pituitary gland.
**Authors:** Cho YW, Fu Y, Huang CJ, Wu X, Ng L, Kelley KA, Vella KR, Berg AH, Hollenberg AN, Liu H, Forrest D
**Journal:** Communications biology (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s42003-023-05546-y](https://doi.org/10.1038/s42003-023-05546-y)

## Content

Thyroid hormone (3,5,3'-triiodothyronine, T3) is a key regulator of pituitary gland function. The response to T3 is thought to hinge crucially on interactions of nuclear T3 receptors with enhancers but these sites in pituitary chromatin remain surprisingly obscure. Here, we investigate genome-wide receptor binding in mice using tagged endogenous thyroid hormone receptor β (TRβ) and analyze T3-regulated open chromatin using an anterior pituitary-specific Cre driver (Thrbb2Cre). Strikingly, T3 regulates histone modifications and chromatin opening primarily at sites that maintain TRβ binding regardless of T3 levels rather than at sites where T3 abolishes or induces de novo binding. These sites associate more frequently with T3-activated than T3-suppressed genes. TRβ-deficiency blunts T3-regulated gene expression, indicating that TRβ confers transcriptional sensitivity. We propose a model of gene activation in which poised receptor-enhancer complexes facilitate adjustable responses to T3 fluctuations, suggesting a genomic basis for T3-dependent pituitary function or pituitary dysfunction in thyroid disorders.