---
reference_id: PMID:25088904
title: Reduced striatal dopamine DA D2 receptor function in dominant-negative GSK-3 transgenic mice.
authors:
- Gomez-Sintes R
- Bortolozzi A
- Artigas F
- Lucas JJ
journal: "European neuropsychopharmacology : the journal of the European College of Neuropsychopharmacology"
year: '2014'
doi: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2014.07.004
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-08T22:20:05+00:00'
---

# Reduced striatal dopamine DA D2 receptor function in dominant-negative GSK-3 transgenic mice.
**Authors:** Gomez-Sintes R, Bortolozzi A, Artigas F, Lucas JJ
**Journal:** European neuropsychopharmacology : the journal of the European College of Neuropsychopharmacology (2014)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.euroneuro.2014.07.004](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.euroneuro.2014.07.004)

## Content

Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) is a serine/threonine kinase with constitutive activity involved in cellular architecture, gene expression, cell proliferation, fate decision and apoptosis, among others. GSK-3 expression is particularly high in brain where it may be involved in neurological and psychiatric disorders such as Alzheimer׳s disease, bipolar disorder and major depression. A link with schizophrenia is suggested by the antipsychotic drug-induced GSK-3 regulation and by the involvement of the Akt/GSK-3 pathway in dopaminergic neurotransmission. Taking advantage of the previous development of dominant negative GSK-3 transgenic mice (Tg) showing a selective reduction of GSK-3 activity in forebrain neurons but not in dopaminergic neurons, we explored the relationship between GSK-3 and dopaminergic neurotransmission in vivo. In microdialysis experiments, local quinpirole (DA D2-R agonist) in dorsal striatum reduced dopamine (DA) release significantly less in Tg mice than in wild-type (WT) mice. However, local SKF-81297 (selective DA D1-R agonist) in dorsal striatum reduced DA release equally in both control and Tg mice indicating a comparable function of DA D1-R in the direct striato-nigral pathway. Likewise, systemic quinpirole administration - acting preferentially on presynaptic DA D2- autoreceptors to modulate DA release-reduced striatal DA release similarly in both control and Tg mice. Quinpirole reduced locomotor activity and induced c-fos expression in globus pallidus (both striatal DA D2-R-mediated effects) significantly more in WT than in Tg mice. Taking together, the present results show that dominant negative GSK-3 transgenic mice show reduced DA D2-R-mediated function in striatum and further support a link between dopaminergic neurotransmission and GSK-3 activity.