---
reference_id: PMID:6264131
title: "Phosphorylation of acyclovir [9-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl)guanine] in Epstein-Barr virus-infected lymphoblastoid cell lines."
authors:
- Colby BM
- Furman PA
- Shaw JE
- Elion GB
- Pagano JS
journal: Journal of virology
year: '1981'
content_type: abstract
fetched_at: '2026-06-02T20:15:29+00:00'
---

# Phosphorylation of acyclovir [9-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl)guanine] in Epstein-Barr virus-infected lymphoblastoid cell lines.
**Authors:** Colby BM, Furman PA, Shaw JE, Elion GB, Pagano JS
**Journal:** Journal of virology (1981)

## Content

The extent of phosphorylation of 9-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl)guanine (acyclovir [ACV]) in fresh peripheral leukocytes, in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-infected lymphoblastoid cell lines, and in herpes simplex virus type 1-infected lymphoblastoid (P3HR-1) and monkey kidney (Vero) cells was determined by high-pressure liquid chromatography, Mono-, di-, and triphosphorylated derivatives of [8-14C]ACV were detected at low levels at various times after superinfection of Raji cells with EBV. The extent of phosphorylation appeared to be related to the concentration of ACV in the medium. Small amounts of ACV mono-, di-, and triphosphates were formed in fresh peripheral leukocyte preparations from EBV- seropositive and -seronegative donors. Comparable ACV monophosphate levels were detected in EBV-negative BJAB and the EBV-positive BJAB/GC cell lines; however, no di- or triphosphate derivatives were detected. Comparable ACV-monophosphate levels were detected in both P3HR-1 and HSV-infected P3HR-1 cell lines; however, larger amounts of ACV di- and triphosphorylated derivatives were detected in the HSV-infected P3HR-1 cells. ACV was converted to the triphosphate to a greater extent in HSV-infected Vero cells than in mock-infected Vero cells or in HSV-infected P3HR-1 cells. ACV or its phosphorylated derivatives were converted to guanine nucleotides to a greater extent in lymphoblastoid cells than in fibroblasts (Vero). In conclusion, neither the productive replication of EBV nor the presence of latent viral DNA is required for ACV monophosphate formation in B lymphoblastoid cells. ACV triphosphate, however, was detected only in cells infected productively with EBV.